contributor-docs/code-contributions.md, before:

# Code Contribution Guide

This guide outlines everything you need to know before making your first
contribution to this repo. If you find any missing information, please update
this guide after you find an answer!

If you are a repository maintainer and need info on repo governance,
how to review/merge code, or other info, see the
[Maintainers Guide](./maintainers-guide.md).

## Prerequisites

If you are not already familiar with Dataflow, Dataflow Templates (especially
flex templates), and Apache Beam it is recommended that you familarize yourself
with each of these at a high level before contributing. Information on each of
these can be found in the following locations:

* [Dataflow](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/overview) - general Dataflow documentation.
* [Dataflow Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/concepts/dataflow-templates) - basic template concepts.
* [Flex templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates) - the preferred way to build new templates
* [Google-provided Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided-templates) - official documentation for templates provided by Google (the source code is in this repository).
* [Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org)
  - [Overview](https://beam.apache.org/use/beam-overview/)
  - Quickstart: [Java](https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-java), [Python](https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-py), [Go](https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-go), [Yaml overview](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/yaml/)
  - [Beam Programming Guide](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/)

## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven 3
* IntelliJ (recommended) or another editor of your choice

### IntelliJ & IDE Setup

For v1 templates, just open the project at the root directory and use maven
from there.

For v2 templates, open the project at the root directory then find the
"Add Maven Project" action and add the v2 directory and let the project rebuild.

### Maven Commands

All Maven commands should be run on the parent POM.
For example:

```
mvn clean package -pl v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery -am
```

### Apple M1 development

To build the project using Maven on Apple M1, add the following profile to `.m2/settings.xml` 
if it does not already exist:

```xml
<settings>
  <activeProfiles>
    <activeProfile>
      apple-silicon
    </activeProfile>
  </activeProfiles>
  <profiles>
    <profile>
      <id>apple-silicon</id>
      <properties>
        <os.detected.classifier>osx-x86_64</os.detected.classifier>
      </properties>
    </profile>
  </profiles>
</settings>
```

### Building/Testing from IntelliJ

IntelliJ, by default, will often skip necessary Maven goals, leading to build
failures. You can fix these in the Maven view by going to
**Module_Name > Plugins > Plugin_Name** where Module_Name and Plugin_Name are
the names of the respective module and plugin with the rule. From there,
right-click the rule and select "Execute Before Build".

The list of known rules that require this are:

* common > Plugins > protobuf > protobuf:compile
* common > Plugins > protobuf > protobuf:test-compile

### Building the Project

Build the entire project using the maven compile command.

```sh
mvn clean compile
```

### Formatting Code

From either the root directory or v2/ directory, run:

```sh
mvn spotless:apply
```

This will format the code and add a license header. To verify that the code is
formatted correctly, run:

```sh
mvn spotless:check
```

### Executing a Template File

Once the template is staged on Google Cloud Storage, it can then be executed
using the
gcloud CLI tool. Please check [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates#using-gcloud)
or [Using Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates#run-a-flex-template-pipeline)
for more information.

## Developing/Contributing Templates

### Templates Plugin

Templates plugin was created to make the workflow of creating, testing and
releasing Templates easier.

Before using the plugin, please make sure that
the [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) is installed and
up-to-date, and that the client is properly authenticated using:

```shell
gcloud init
gcloud auth application-default login
```

After authenticated, install the plugin into your local repository:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Staging (Deploying) Templates

To stage a Template, it is necessary to upload the images to Artifact
Registry (for Flex templates) and copy the template to Cloud Storage.

Although there are different steps that depend on the kind of template being
developed. The plugin allows a template to be staged using the following single
command:

```shell
mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
  -DskipTests \
  -DprojectId="{projectId}" \
  -DbucketName="{bucketName}" \
  -DstagePrefix="images/$(date +%Y_%m_%d)_01" \
  -DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_GCS_Text_Flex" \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud -am
```

Notes:
- Change `-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud` and `-DtemplateName` to point to the specific Maven module where your template is located. Even though `-pl` is not required, it allows the command to run considerably faster.
- In case `-DtemplateName` is not specified, all templates for the module will be staged.

### Generating Template's Terraform module

This repository can generate a [terraform module](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules)
that prompts users for template specific parameters and launch a Dataflow Job.
To generate a template specific terraform module, see the instructions for classic
and flex templates below.

#### Plugin artifact dependencies

The required plugin artifact dependencies are listed below:
- [plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf](plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf)
- [plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf](plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf)

These are outputs from the [cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema](cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema).
See [cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema/README.md](cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema/README.md)
for further details.

#### For Classic templates:

```shell
mvn clean prepare-package \
  -DskipTests \
  -PtemplatesTerraform \
  -pl v1 -am
```

Next, [terraform fmt](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/fmt) the modules after
generating:
```shell
terraform fmt -recursive v1
```

The resulting terraform modules are generated in [v1/terraform](v1/terraform).

#### For Flex templates:

```shell
mvn clean prepare-package \
  -DskipTests \
  -PtemplatesTerraform \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-togooglecloud -am
```

Next, [terraform fmt](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/fmt) the modules after
generating:
```shell
terraform fmt -recursive v2
```

The resulting terraform modules are generated in `v2/<source>-to-<sink>/terraform`,
for example [v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/terraform](v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/terraform).

Notes:
- Change `-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud` and `-DtemplateName` to point to the specific Maven module where your template is located.

### Running a Template

A template can also be executed on Dataflow, directly from the command line. The
command-line is similar to staging a template, but it is required to
specify `-Dparameters` with the parameters that will be used when launching the
template. For example:

```shell
mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
  -DskipTests \
  -DprojectId="{projectId}" \
  -DbucketName="{bucketName}" \
  -Dregion="us-central1" \
  -DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_GCS_Text_Flex" \
  -Dparameters="inputTopic=projects/{projectId}/topics/{topicName},windowDuration=15s,outputDirectory=gs://{outputDirectory}/out,outputFilenamePrefix=output-,outputFilenameSuffix=.txt" \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud -am

```

Notes:
- When running a template, `-DtemplateName` is mandatory, as `-Dparameters=` are
  different across templates.
- `-PtemplatesRun` is self-contained, i.e., it is not required to run **
  Deploying/Staging Templates** before. In case you want to run a previously
  staged template, the existing path can be provided
  as `-DspecPath=gs://.../path`
- `-DjobName="{name}"` may be informed if a specific name is desirable (
  optional).
- If you encounter the error `Template run failed: File too large`, try adding `-DskipShade` to the mvn args.


### Running Integration Tests

For information on adding integration tests, see [Adding an Integration or Load Test](./add-integration-or-load-test.md)

To run integration tests, the developer plugin can be also used to stage template on-demand (in case the parameter `-DspecPath=` is not specified).

For example, to run all the integration tests in a specific module (in the example below, `v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud`):

```shell
mvn clean verify \
  -PtemplatesIntegrationTests \
  -Dproject="{project}" \
  -DartifactBucket="{bucketName}" \
  -Dregion=us-central1 \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud -am
```

The parameter `-Dtest=` can be given to test a single class (e.g., `-Dtest=PubsubToTextIT`) or single test case (e.g., `-Dtest=PubsubToTextIT#testTopicToGcs`).

The same happens when the test is executed from an IDE, just make sure to add the parameters `-Dproject=`, `-DartifactBucket=` and `-Dregion=` as program or VM arguments.

### Running Load Tests

For information on adding and running load tests, see [Adding a Load Test](./add-integration-or-load-test.md).

### Adding New Templates

If you are interested in introducing a new template, please file an issue using the [Google Issue Tracker](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/new?component=187168&template=0) before doing so. You need approval before moving forward. Any new templates must be flex templates in the v2 directory.

Once you have approval, follow these steps from the root of the repo to get started on your template.

First, install the [maven plugin](#templates-plugin), then create a subdirectory in the repository: `v2/<name-of-your-template>`. `<name-of-your-template>` should follow the pattern `<source>-to-<sink>`. From there, you can follow the steps in [Adding a Flex Template](./add-flex-template.md) to develop your template.

All new templates must comply with the following guidance:

- [ ] Template addition has been approved by the Dataflow team in a [Google Issue Tracker Issue](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/new?component=187168&template=0).
- [ ] The template must be a Flex Template located in the `v2/<template name>` directory.
- [ ] The template does not contain a duplicated/fork of a Beam IO.
- [ ] The template contains integration tests.
- [ ] The template contains load tests.
- [ ] All template parameters are documented, and documentation has been auto-generated.
- [ ] Terraform modules have been autogenerated.
- [ ] For partner templates (Templates contributed by other companies), support partnership agreements and clear escalation paths must exist. Please reach out to the Dataflow team directly to get these in place before contributing a template.
- [ ] For templates contributed by Googlers, go/support-dataflow-playbook/templates-triaging should list contact / on-call information from that team.

## Metadata Annotations

A template requires more information than just a name and description. For
example, in order to be used from the Dataflow UI, parameters need a longer help
text to guide users, as well as proper types and validations to make sure
parameters are being passed correctly.

We introduced annotations to have the source code as a single source of truth,
along with a set of utilities / plugins to generate template-accompanying
artifacts (such as command specs, parameter specs).

#### @Template Annotation

Every template must be annotated with `@Template`. Existing templates can be
used for reference, but the structure is as follows:

```java

@Template(
    name = "BigQuery_to_Elasticsearch",
    category = TemplateCategory.BATCH,
    displayName = "BigQuery to Elasticsearch",
    description = "A pipeline which sends BigQuery records into an Elasticsearch instance as JSON documents.",
    optionsClass = BigQueryToElasticsearchOptions.class,
    flexContainerName = "bigquery-to-elasticsearch")
public class BigQueryToElasticsearch {
```

#### @TemplateParameter Annotation

A set of `@TemplateParameter.{Type}` annotations were created to allow the
definition of options for a template, and the proper rendering in the UI, and
validations by the template launch service. Examples can be found in the
repository, but the general structure is as follows:

```java
@TemplateParameter.Text(
    order = 2,
    optional = false,
    regexes = {"[,a-zA-Z0-9._-]+"},
    description = "Kafka topic(s) to read the input from",
    helpText = "Kafka topic(s) to read the input from.",
    example = "topic1,topic2")
@Validation.Required
String getInputTopics();
```

```java
@TemplateParameter.GcsReadFile(
    order = 1,
    description = "Cloud Storage Input File(s)",
    helpText = "Path of the file pattern glob to read from.",
    example = "gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv")
String getInputFilePattern();
```

```java
@TemplateParameter.Boolean(
    order = 11,
    optional = true,
    description = "Whether to use column alias to map the rows.",
    helpText = "If enabled (set to true) the pipeline will consider column alias (\"AS\") instead of the column name to map the rows to BigQuery.")
@Default.Boolean(false)
Boolean getUseColumnAlias();
```

```java
@TemplateParameter.Enum(
    order = 21,
    enumOptions = {"INDEX", "CREATE"},
    optional = true,
    description = "Build insert method",
    helpText = "Whether to use INDEX (index, allows upsert) or CREATE (create, errors on duplicate _id) with Elasticsearch bulk requests.")
@Default.Enum("CREATE")
BulkInsertMethodOptions getBulkInsertMethod();
```

Note: `order` is relevant for templates that can be used from the UI, and
specify the relative order of parameters.

#### Template Parameter Compatibility/Deprecation

Dataflow Templates attempt to maintain full backwards compatibility with previous versions of the template, such that templates launched by automation or a schedule will continue to function indefinitely. If you need to deprecate a TemplateParameter, you can do so by adding the `@Deprecated` annotation to the template, for example:

```java
@TemplateParameter.Text(
    order = 21,
    optional = true,
    description = "Deprecated, use XYZ instead",
    helpText = "This parameter has been deprecated, please use XYZ parameter instead")
@Deprecated
BulkInsertMethodOptions getBulkInsertMethod();
```

You can optionally add a `hiddenUi` attribute to hide it in the UI. This will still keep it available via gcloud/REST API calls:

```java
@TemplateParameter.Text(
    order = 21,
    optional = true,
    description = "Deprecated, use XYZ instead",
    helpText = "This parameter has been deprecated, please use XYZ parameter instead",
    hiddenUi = true)
@Deprecated
BulkInsertMethodOptions getBulkInsertMethod();
```

#### @TemplateIntegrationTest Annotation

This annotation should be used by classes that are used for integration tests of
other templates. This is used to wire a specific `IT` class with a template, and
allows environment preparation / proper template staging before tests are
executed on Dataflow.

Template tests have to follow this general format (please note
the `@TemplateIntegrationTest` annotation and the `TemplateTestBase`
super-class):

```java

@TemplateIntegrationTest(PubsubToText.class)
@RunWith(JUnit4.class)
public final class PubsubToTextIT extends TemplateTestBase {
```

Please refer to `Templates Plugin` to use and validate such annotations.

## Generated Documentation

This repository contains generated documentation, which contains a list of parameters
and instructions on how to customize and/or build every template.

To generate the documentation for all templates, the following command can be used:

```shell
mvn clean prepare-package \
  -DskipTests \
  -PtemplatesSpec
```

## Release Process

Templates are released in a weekly basis (best-effort) as part of the efforts to
keep [Google-provided Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided-templates)
updated with latest fixes and improvements.

To learn more about this process, or how you can stage your own changes, see [Release Process](./release-process.md).

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

contributor-docs/code-contributions.md, after:

# Code Contribution Guide

This guide outlines everything you need to know before making your first
contribution to this repo. If you find any missing information, please update
this guide after you find an answer!

If you are a repository maintainer and need info on repo governance,
how to review/merge code, or other info, see the
[Maintainers Guide](./maintainers-guide.md).

## Prerequisites

If you are not already familiar with Dataflow, Dataflow Templates (especially
flex templates), and Apache Beam it is recommended that you familarize yourself
with each of these at a high level before contributing. Information on each of
these can be found in the following locations:

* [Dataflow](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/overview) - general Dataflow documentation.
* [Dataflow Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/concepts/dataflow-templates) - basic template concepts.
* [Flex templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates) - the preferred way to build new templates
* [Google-provided Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided-templates) - official documentation for templates provided by Google (the source code is in this repository).
* [Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org)
  - [Overview](https://beam.apache.org/use/beam-overview/)
  - Quickstart: [Java](https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-java), [Python](https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-py), [Go](https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-go), [Yaml overview](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/sdks/yaml/)
  - [Beam Programming Guide](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/)

## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven 3
* IntelliJ (recommended) or another editor of your choice

### IntelliJ & IDE Setup

For v1 templates, just open the project at the root directory and use maven
from there.

For v2 templates, open the project at the root directory then find the
"Add Maven Project" action and add the v2 directory and let the project rebuild.

### Maven Commands

All Maven commands should be run on the parent POM.
For example:

```
mvn clean package -pl v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery -am
```

### Apple M1 development

To build the project using Maven on Apple M1, add the following profile to `.m2/settings.xml` 
if it does not already exist:

```xml
<settings>
  <activeProfiles>
    <activeProfile>
      apple-silicon
    </activeProfile>
  </activeProfiles>
  <profiles>
    <profile>
      <id>apple-silicon</id>
      <properties>
        <os.detected.classifier>osx-x86_64</os.detected.classifier>
      </properties>
    </profile>
  </profiles>
</settings>
```

### Building/Testing from IntelliJ

IntelliJ, by default, will often skip necessary Maven goals, leading to build
failures. You can fix these in the Maven view by going to
**Module_Name > Plugins > Plugin_Name** where Module_Name and Plugin_Name are
the names of the respective module and plugin with the rule. From there,
right-click the rule and select "Execute Before Build".

The list of known rules that require this are:

* common > Plugins > protobuf > protobuf:compile
* common > Plugins > protobuf > protobuf:test-compile

### Building the Project

Build the entire project using the maven compile command.

```sh
mvn clean compile
```

### Formatting Code

From either the root directory or v2/ directory, run:

```sh
mvn spotless:apply
```

This will format the code and add a license header. To verify that the code is
formatted correctly, run:

```sh
mvn spotless:check
```

### Executing a Template File

Once the template is staged on Google Cloud Storage, it can then be executed
using the
gcloud CLI tool. Please check [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates#using-gcloud)
or [Using Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates#run-a-flex-template-pipeline)
for more information.

## Developing/Contributing Templates

### Templates Plugin

Templates plugin was created to make the workflow of creating, testing and
releasing Templates easier.

Before using the plugin, please make sure that
the [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) is installed and
up-to-date, and that the client is properly authenticated using:

```shell
gcloud init
gcloud auth application-default login
```

After authenticated, install the plugin into your local repository:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```

### Staging (Deploying) Templates

To stage a Template, it is necessary to upload the images to Artifact
Registry (for Flex templates) and copy the template to Cloud Storage.

Although there are different steps that depend on the kind of template being
developed. The plugin allows a template to be staged using the following single
command:

```shell
mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
  -DskipTests \
  -DprojectId="{projectId}" \
  -DbucketName="{bucketName}" \
  -DstagePrefix="images/$(date +%Y_%m_%d)_01" \
  -DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_GCS_Text_Flex" \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud -am
```

Notes:
- Change `-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud` and `-DtemplateName` to point to the specific Maven module where your template is located. Even though `-pl` is not required, it allows the command to run considerably faster.
- In case `-DtemplateName` is not specified, all templates for the module will be staged.

### Generating Template's Terraform module

This repository can generate a [terraform module](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules)
that prompts users for template specific parameters and launch a Dataflow Job.
To generate a template specific terraform module, see the instructions for classic
and flex templates below.

#### Plugin artifact dependencies

The required plugin artifact dependencies are listed below:
- [plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf](plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf)
- [plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf](plugins/core-plugin/src/main/resources/terraform-classic-template.tf)

These are outputs from the [cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema](cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema).
See [cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema/README.md](cicd/cmd/run-terraform-schema/README.md)
for further details.

#### For Classic templates:

```shell
mvn clean prepare-package \
  -DskipTests \
  -PtemplatesTerraform \
  -pl v1 -am
```

Next, [terraform fmt](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/fmt) the modules after
generating:
```shell
terraform fmt -recursive v1
```

The resulting terraform modules are generated in [v1/terraform](v1/terraform).

#### For Flex templates:

```shell
mvn clean prepare-package \
  -DskipTests \
  -PtemplatesTerraform \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-togooglecloud -am
```

Next, [terraform fmt](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/fmt) the modules after
generating:
```shell
terraform fmt -recursive v2
```

The resulting terraform modules are generated in `v2/<source>-to-<sink>/terraform`,
for example [v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/terraform](v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/terraform).

Notes:
- Change `-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud` and `-DtemplateName` to point to the specific Maven module where your template is located.

### Running a Template

A template can also be executed on Dataflow, directly from the command line. The
command-line is similar to staging a template, but it is required to
specify `-Dparameters` with the parameters that will be used when launching the
template. For example:

```shell
mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
  -DskipTests \
  -DprojectId="{projectId}" \
  -DbucketName="{bucketName}" \
  -Dregion="us-central1" \
  -DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_GCS_Text_Flex" \
  -Dparameters="inputTopic=projects/{projectId}/topics/{topicName},windowDuration=15s,outputDirectory=gs://{outputDirectory}/out,outputFilenamePrefix=output-,outputFilenameSuffix=.txt" \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud -am

```

Notes:
- When running a template, `-DtemplateName` is mandatory, as `-Dparameters=` are
  different across templates.
- `-PtemplatesRun` is self-contained, i.e., it is not required to run **
  Deploying/Staging Templates** before. In case you want to run a previously
  staged template, the existing path can be provided
  as `-DspecPath=gs://.../path`
- `-DjobName="{name}"` may be informed if a specific name is desirable (
  optional).
- If you encounter the error `Template run failed: File too large`, try adding `-DskipShade` to the mvn args.


### Running Integration Tests

For information on adding integration tests, see [Adding an Integration or Load Test](./add-integration-or-load-test.md)

To run integration tests, the developer plugin can be also used to stage template on-demand (in case the parameter `-DspecPath=` is not specified).

For example, to run all the integration tests in a specific module (in the example below, `v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud`):

```shell
mvn clean verify \
  -PtemplatesIntegrationTests \
  -Dproject="{project}" \
  -DartifactBucket="{bucketName}" \
  -Dregion=us-central1 \
  -pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud -am
```

The parameter `-Dtest=` can be given to test a single class (e.g., `-Dtest=PubsubToTextIT`) or single test case (e.g., `-Dtest=PubsubToTextIT#testTopicToGcs`).

The same happens when the test is executed from an IDE, just make sure to add the parameters `-Dproject=`, `-DartifactBucket=` and `-Dregion=` as program or VM arguments.

### Running Load Tests

For information on adding and running load tests, see [Adding a Load Test](./add-integration-or-load-test.md).

### Adding New Templates

If you are interested in introducing a new template, please file an issue using the [Google Issue Tracker](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/new?component=187168&template=0) before doing so. You need approval before moving forward. Any new templates must be flex templates in the v2 directory.

Once you have approval, follow these steps from the root of the repo to get started on your template.

First, install the [maven plugin](#templates-plugin), then create a subdirectory in the repository: `v2/<name-of-your-template>`. `<name-of-your-template>` should follow the pattern `<source>-to-<sink>`. From there, you can follow the steps in [Adding a Flex Template](./add-flex-template.md) to develop your template.

All new templates must comply with the following guidance:

- [ ] Template addition has been approved by the Dataflow team in a [Google Issue Tracker Issue](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/new?component=187168&template=0).
- [ ] The template must be a Flex Template located in the `v2/<template name>` directory.
- [ ] The template does not contain a duplicated/fork of a Beam IO.
- [ ] The template contains integration tests.
- [ ] The template contains load tests.
- [ ] All template parameters are documented, and documentation has been auto-generated.
- [ ] Terraform modules have been autogenerated.
- [ ] For partner templates (Templates contributed by other companies), support partnership agreements and clear escalation paths must exist. Please reach out to the Dataflow team directly to get these in place before contributing a template.
- [ ] For templates contributed by Googlers, go/support-dataflow-playbook/templates-triaging should list contact / on-call information from that team.

## Metadata Annotations

A template requires more information than just a name and description. For
example, in order to be used from the Dataflow UI, parameters need a longer help
text to guide users, as well as proper types and validations to make sure
parameters are being passed correctly.

We introduced annotations to have the source code as a single source of truth,
along with a set of utilities / plugins to generate template-accompanying
artifacts (such as command specs, parameter specs).

#### @Template Annotation

Every template must be annotated with `@Template`. Existing templates can be
used for reference, but the structure is as follows:

```java

@Template(
    name = "BigQuery_to_Elasticsearch",
    category = TemplateCategory.BATCH,
    displayName = "BigQuery to Elasticsearch",
    description = "A pipeline which sends BigQuery records into an Elasticsearch instance as JSON documents.",
    optionsClass = BigQueryToElasticsearchOptions.class,
    flexContainerName = "bigquery-to-elasticsearch")
public class BigQueryToElasticsearch {
```

#### @TemplateParameter Annotation

A set of `@TemplateParameter.{Type}` annotations were created to allow the
definition of options for a template, and the proper rendering in the UI, and
validations by the template launch service. Examples can be found in the
repository, but the general structure is as follows:

```java
@TemplateParameter.Text(
    order = 2,
    optional = false,
    regexes = {"[,a-zA-Z0-9._-]+"},
    description = "Kafka topic(s) to read the input from",
    helpText = "Kafka topic(s) to read the input from.",
    example = "topic1,topic2")
@Validation.Required
String getInputTopics();
```

```java
@TemplateParameter.GcsReadFile(
    order = 1,
    description = "Cloud Storage Input File(s)",
    helpText = "Path of the file pattern glob to read from.",
    example = "gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv")
String getInputFilePattern();
```

```java
@TemplateParameter.Boolean(
    order = 11,
    optional = true,
    description = "Whether to use column alias to map the rows.",
    helpText = "If enabled (set to true) the pipeline will consider column alias (\"AS\") instead of the column name to map the rows to BigQuery.")
@Default.Boolean(false)
Boolean getUseColumnAlias();
```

```java
@TemplateParameter.Enum(
    order = 21,
    enumOptions = {"INDEX", "CREATE"},
    optional = true,
    description = "Build insert method",
    helpText = "Whether to use INDEX (index, allows upsert) or CREATE (create, errors on duplicate _id) with Elasticsearch bulk requests.")
@Default.Enum("CREATE")
BulkInsertMethodOptions getBulkInsertMethod();
```

Note: `order` is relevant for templates that can be used from the UI, and
specify the relative order of parameters.

#### Template Parameter Compatibility/Deprecation

Dataflow Templates attempt to maintain full backwards compatibility with previous versions of the template, such that templates launched by automation or a schedule will continue to function indefinitely. If you need to deprecate a TemplateParameter, you can do so by adding the `@Deprecated` annotation to the template, for example:

```java
@TemplateParameter.Text(
    order = 21,
    optional = true,
    description = "Deprecated, use XYZ instead",
    helpText = "This parameter has been deprecated, please use XYZ parameter instead")
@Deprecated
BulkInsertMethodOptions getBulkInsertMethod();
```

You can optionally add a `hiddenUi` attribute to hide it in the UI. This will still keep it available via gcloud/REST API calls:

```java
@TemplateParameter.Text(
    order = 21,
    optional = true,
    description = "Deprecated, use XYZ instead",
    helpText = "This parameter has been deprecated, please use XYZ parameter instead",
    hiddenUi = true)
@Deprecated
BulkInsertMethodOptions getBulkInsertMethod();
```

#### @TemplateIntegrationTest Annotation

This annotation should be used by classes that are used for integration tests of
other templates. This is used to wire a specific `IT` class with a template, and
allows environment preparation / proper template staging before tests are
executed on Dataflow.

Template tests have to follow this general format (please note
the `@TemplateIntegrationTest` annotation and the `TemplateTestBase`
super-class):

```java

@TemplateIntegrationTest(PubsubToText.class)
@RunWith(JUnit4.class)
public final class PubsubToTextIT extends TemplateTestBase {
```

Please refer to `Templates Plugin` to use and validate such annotations.

## Generated Documentation

This repository contains generated documentation, which contains a list of parameters
and instructions on how to customize and/or build every template.

To generate the documentation for all templates, the following command can be used:

```shell
mvn clean prepare-package \
  -DskipTests \
  -PtemplatesSpec
```

This command will not only generate each template's README file, but will also generate the site docs.
The site docs can be found under `target/site/` from the root project directory.

## Release Process

Templates are released in a weekly basis (best-effort) as part of the efforts to
keep [Google-provided Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided-templates)
updated with latest fixes and improvements.

To learn more about this process, or how you can stage your own changes, see [Release Process](./release-process.md).
