v2/spanner-to-sourcedb/README_Spanner_to_SourceDb.md, before:


Spanner Change Streams to Source Database template
---
Streaming pipeline. Reads data from Spanner Change Streams and writes them to a
source.



:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **changeStreamName** : This is the name of the Spanner change stream that the pipeline will read from.
* **instanceId** : This is the name of the Cloud Spanner instance where the changestream is present.
* **databaseId** : This is the name of the Cloud Spanner database that the changestream is monitoring.
* **spannerProjectId** : This is the name of the Cloud Spanner project.
* **metadataInstance** : This is the instance to store the metadata used by the connector to control the consumption of the change stream API data.
* **metadataDatabase** : This is the database to store the metadata used by the connector to control the consumption of the change stream API data.
* **sourceShardsFilePath** : Path to GCS file containing connection profile info for source shards.

### Optional parameters

* **startTimestamp** : Read changes from the given timestamp. Defaults to empty.
* **endTimestamp** : Read changes until the given timestamp. If no timestamp provided, reads indefinitely. Defaults to empty.
* **shadowTablePrefix** : The prefix used to name shadow tables. Default: `shadow_`.
* **sessionFilePath** : Session file path in Cloud Storage that contains mapping information from HarbourBridge.
* **filtrationMode** : Mode of Filtration, decides how to drop certain records based on a criteria. Currently supported modes are: none (filter nothing), forward_migration (filter records written via the forward migration pipeline). Defaults to forward_migration.
* **shardingCustomJarPath** : Custom jar location in Cloud Storage that contains the customization logic for fetching shard id. Defaults to empty.
* **shardingCustomClassName** : Fully qualified class name having the custom shard id implementation.  It is a mandatory field in case shardingCustomJarPath is specified. Defaults to empty.
* **shardingCustomParameters** : String containing any custom parameters to be passed to the custom sharding class. Defaults to empty.
* **sourceDbTimezoneOffset** : This is the timezone offset from UTC for the source database. Example value: +10:00. Defaults to: +00:00.
* **dlqGcsPubSubSubscription** : The Pub/Sub subscription being used in a Cloud Storage notification policy for DLQ retry directory when running in regular mode. The name should be in the format of projects/<project-id>/subscriptions/<subscription-name>. When set, the deadLetterQueueDirectory and dlqRetryMinutes are ignored.
* **skipDirectoryName** : Records skipped from reverse replication are written to this directory. Default directory name is skip.
* **maxShardConnections** : This will come from shard file eventually. Defaults to: 10000.
* **deadLetterQueueDirectory** : The file path used when storing the error queue output. The default file path is a directory under the Dataflow job's temp location.
* **dlqMaxRetryCount** : The max number of times temporary errors can be retried through DLQ. Defaults to 500.
* **runMode** : This is the run mode type, whether regular or with retryDLQ. Default is regular.retryDLQ is used to retry the severe DLQ records only.
* **dlqRetryMinutes** : The number of minutes between dead letter queue retries. Defaults to 10.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/spanner-to-sourcedb/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/SpannerToSourceDb.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_SourceDb" \
-f v2/spanner-to-sourcedb
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Spanner_to_SourceDb
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Spanner_to_SourceDb"

### Required
export CHANGE_STREAM_NAME=<changeStreamName>
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export METADATA_INSTANCE=<metadataInstance>
export METADATA_DATABASE=<metadataDatabase>
export SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH=<sourceShardsFilePath>

### Optional
export START_TIMESTAMP=""
export END_TIMESTAMP=""
export SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX=shadow_
export SESSION_FILE_PATH=<sessionFilePath>
export FILTRATION_MODE=forward_migration
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS=""
export SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET=+00:00
export DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION=<dlqGcsPubSubSubscription>
export SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME=skip
export MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS=10000
export DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY=""
export DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT=500
export RUN_MODE=regular
export DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES=10

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "spanner-to-sourcedb-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "changeStreamName=$CHANGE_STREAM_NAME" \
  --parameters "instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "databaseId=$DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "metadataInstance=$METADATA_INSTANCE" \
  --parameters "metadataDatabase=$METADATA_DATABASE" \
  --parameters "startTimestamp=$START_TIMESTAMP" \
  --parameters "endTimestamp=$END_TIMESTAMP" \
  --parameters "shadowTablePrefix=$SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX" \
  --parameters "sourceShardsFilePath=$SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH" \
  --parameters "sessionFilePath=$SESSION_FILE_PATH" \
  --parameters "filtrationMode=$FILTRATION_MODE" \
  --parameters "shardingCustomJarPath=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH" \
  --parameters "shardingCustomClassName=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME" \
  --parameters "shardingCustomParameters=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS" \
  --parameters "sourceDbTimezoneOffset=$SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET" \
  --parameters "dlqGcsPubSubSubscription=$DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION" \
  --parameters "skipDirectoryName=$SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME" \
  --parameters "maxShardConnections=$MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS" \
  --parameters "deadLetterQueueDirectory=$DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "dlqMaxRetryCount=$DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT" \
  --parameters "runMode=$RUN_MODE" \
  --parameters "dlqRetryMinutes=$DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export CHANGE_STREAM_NAME=<changeStreamName>
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export METADATA_INSTANCE=<metadataInstance>
export METADATA_DATABASE=<metadataDatabase>
export SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH=<sourceShardsFilePath>

### Optional
export START_TIMESTAMP=""
export END_TIMESTAMP=""
export SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX=shadow_
export SESSION_FILE_PATH=<sessionFilePath>
export FILTRATION_MODE=forward_migration
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS=""
export SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET=+00:00
export DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION=<dlqGcsPubSubSubscription>
export SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME=skip
export MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS=10000
export DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY=""
export DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT=500
export RUN_MODE=regular
export DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES=10

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="spanner-to-sourcedb-job" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_SourceDb" \
-Dparameters="changeStreamName=$CHANGE_STREAM_NAME,instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID,databaseId=$DATABASE_ID,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,metadataInstance=$METADATA_INSTANCE,metadataDatabase=$METADATA_DATABASE,startTimestamp=$START_TIMESTAMP,endTimestamp=$END_TIMESTAMP,shadowTablePrefix=$SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX,sourceShardsFilePath=$SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH,sessionFilePath=$SESSION_FILE_PATH,filtrationMode=$FILTRATION_MODE,shardingCustomJarPath=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH,shardingCustomClassName=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME,shardingCustomParameters=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS,sourceDbTimezoneOffset=$SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET,dlqGcsPubSubSubscription=$DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION,skipDirectoryName=$SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME,maxShardConnections=$MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS,deadLetterQueueDirectory=$DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY,dlqMaxRetryCount=$DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT,runMode=$RUN_MODE,dlqRetryMinutes=$DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES" \
-f v2/spanner-to-sourcedb
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/spanner-to-sourcedb/terraform/Spanner_to_SourceDb
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "spanner_to_sourcedb" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Spanner_to_SourceDb"
  name              = "spanner-to-sourcedb"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    changeStreamName = "<changeStreamName>"
    instanceId = "<instanceId>"
    databaseId = "<databaseId>"
    spannerProjectId = "<spannerProjectId>"
    metadataInstance = "<metadataInstance>"
    metadataDatabase = "<metadataDatabase>"
    sourceShardsFilePath = "<sourceShardsFilePath>"
    # startTimestamp = ""
    # endTimestamp = ""
    # shadowTablePrefix = "shadow_"
    # sessionFilePath = "<sessionFilePath>"
    # filtrationMode = "forward_migration"
    # shardingCustomJarPath = ""
    # shardingCustomClassName = ""
    # shardingCustomParameters = ""
    # sourceDbTimezoneOffset = "+00:00"
    # dlqGcsPubSubSubscription = "<dlqGcsPubSubSubscription>"
    # skipDirectoryName = "skip"
    # maxShardConnections = "10000"
    # deadLetterQueueDirectory = ""
    # dlqMaxRetryCount = "500"
    # runMode = "regular"
    # dlqRetryMinutes = "10"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v2/spanner-to-sourcedb/README_Spanner_to_SourceDb.md, after:


Spanner Change Streams to Source Database template
---
Streaming pipeline. Reads data from Spanner Change Streams and writes them to a
source.



:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **changeStreamName** : This is the name of the Spanner change stream that the pipeline will read from.
* **instanceId** : This is the name of the Cloud Spanner instance where the changestream is present.
* **databaseId** : This is the name of the Cloud Spanner database that the changestream is monitoring.
* **spannerProjectId** : This is the name of the Cloud Spanner project.
* **metadataInstance** : This is the instance to store the metadata used by the connector to control the consumption of the change stream API data.
* **metadataDatabase** : This is the database to store the metadata used by the connector to control the consumption of the change stream API data.
* **sourceShardsFilePath** : Path to GCS file containing connection profile info for source shards.

### Optional parameters

* **startTimestamp** : Read changes from the given timestamp. Defaults to empty.
* **endTimestamp** : Read changes until the given timestamp. If no timestamp provided, reads indefinitely. Defaults to empty.
* **shadowTablePrefix** : The prefix used to name shadow tables. Default: `shadow_`.
* **sessionFilePath** : Session file path in Cloud Storage that contains mapping information from HarbourBridge.
* **filtrationMode** : Mode of Filtration, decides how to drop certain records based on a criteria. Currently supported modes are: none (filter nothing), forward_migration (filter records written via the forward migration pipeline). Defaults to forward_migration.
* **shardingCustomJarPath** : Custom jar location in Cloud Storage that contains the customization logic for fetching shard id. Defaults to empty.
* **shardingCustomClassName** : Fully qualified class name having the custom shard id implementation.  It is a mandatory field in case shardingCustomJarPath is specified. Defaults to empty.
* **shardingCustomParameters** : String containing any custom parameters to be passed to the custom sharding class. Defaults to empty.
* **sourceDbTimezoneOffset** : This is the timezone offset from UTC for the source database. Example value: +10:00. Defaults to: +00:00.
* **dlqGcsPubSubSubscription** : The Pub/Sub subscription being used in a Cloud Storage notification policy for DLQ retry directory when running in regular mode. The name should be in the format of projects/<project-id>/subscriptions/<subscription-name>. When set, the deadLetterQueueDirectory and dlqRetryMinutes are ignored.
* **skipDirectoryName** : Records skipped from reverse replication are written to this directory. Default directory name is skip.
* **maxShardConnections** : This will come from shard file eventually. Defaults to: 10000.
* **deadLetterQueueDirectory** : The file path used when storing the error queue output. The default file path is a directory under the Dataflow job's temp location.
* **dlqMaxRetryCount** : The max number of times temporary errors can be retried through DLQ. Defaults to 500.
* **runMode** : This is the run mode type, whether regular or with retryDLQ.Default is regular. retryDLQ is used to retry the severe DLQ records only.
* **dlqRetryMinutes** : The number of minutes between dead letter queue retries. Defaults to 10.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/spanner-to-sourcedb/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/SpannerToSourceDb.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_SourceDb" \
-f v2/spanner-to-sourcedb
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Spanner_to_SourceDb
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Spanner_to_SourceDb"

### Required
export CHANGE_STREAM_NAME=<changeStreamName>
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export METADATA_INSTANCE=<metadataInstance>
export METADATA_DATABASE=<metadataDatabase>
export SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH=<sourceShardsFilePath>

### Optional
export START_TIMESTAMP=""
export END_TIMESTAMP=""
export SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX=shadow_
export SESSION_FILE_PATH=<sessionFilePath>
export FILTRATION_MODE=forward_migration
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS=""
export SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET=+00:00
export DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION=<dlqGcsPubSubSubscription>
export SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME=skip
export MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS=10000
export DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY=""
export DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT=500
export RUN_MODE=regular
export DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES=10

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "spanner-to-sourcedb-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "changeStreamName=$CHANGE_STREAM_NAME" \
  --parameters "instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "databaseId=$DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "metadataInstance=$METADATA_INSTANCE" \
  --parameters "metadataDatabase=$METADATA_DATABASE" \
  --parameters "startTimestamp=$START_TIMESTAMP" \
  --parameters "endTimestamp=$END_TIMESTAMP" \
  --parameters "shadowTablePrefix=$SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX" \
  --parameters "sourceShardsFilePath=$SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH" \
  --parameters "sessionFilePath=$SESSION_FILE_PATH" \
  --parameters "filtrationMode=$FILTRATION_MODE" \
  --parameters "shardingCustomJarPath=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH" \
  --parameters "shardingCustomClassName=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME" \
  --parameters "shardingCustomParameters=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS" \
  --parameters "sourceDbTimezoneOffset=$SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET" \
  --parameters "dlqGcsPubSubSubscription=$DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION" \
  --parameters "skipDirectoryName=$SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME" \
  --parameters "maxShardConnections=$MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS" \
  --parameters "deadLetterQueueDirectory=$DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "dlqMaxRetryCount=$DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT" \
  --parameters "runMode=$RUN_MODE" \
  --parameters "dlqRetryMinutes=$DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export CHANGE_STREAM_NAME=<changeStreamName>
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export METADATA_INSTANCE=<metadataInstance>
export METADATA_DATABASE=<metadataDatabase>
export SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH=<sourceShardsFilePath>

### Optional
export START_TIMESTAMP=""
export END_TIMESTAMP=""
export SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX=shadow_
export SESSION_FILE_PATH=<sessionFilePath>
export FILTRATION_MODE=forward_migration
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME=""
export SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS=""
export SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET=+00:00
export DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION=<dlqGcsPubSubSubscription>
export SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME=skip
export MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS=10000
export DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY=""
export DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT=500
export RUN_MODE=regular
export DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES=10

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="spanner-to-sourcedb-job" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_SourceDb" \
-Dparameters="changeStreamName=$CHANGE_STREAM_NAME,instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID,databaseId=$DATABASE_ID,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,metadataInstance=$METADATA_INSTANCE,metadataDatabase=$METADATA_DATABASE,startTimestamp=$START_TIMESTAMP,endTimestamp=$END_TIMESTAMP,shadowTablePrefix=$SHADOW_TABLE_PREFIX,sourceShardsFilePath=$SOURCE_SHARDS_FILE_PATH,sessionFilePath=$SESSION_FILE_PATH,filtrationMode=$FILTRATION_MODE,shardingCustomJarPath=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_JAR_PATH,shardingCustomClassName=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_CLASS_NAME,shardingCustomParameters=$SHARDING_CUSTOM_PARAMETERS,sourceDbTimezoneOffset=$SOURCE_DB_TIMEZONE_OFFSET,dlqGcsPubSubSubscription=$DLQ_GCS_PUB_SUB_SUBSCRIPTION,skipDirectoryName=$SKIP_DIRECTORY_NAME,maxShardConnections=$MAX_SHARD_CONNECTIONS,deadLetterQueueDirectory=$DEAD_LETTER_QUEUE_DIRECTORY,dlqMaxRetryCount=$DLQ_MAX_RETRY_COUNT,runMode=$RUN_MODE,dlqRetryMinutes=$DLQ_RETRY_MINUTES" \
-f v2/spanner-to-sourcedb
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/spanner-to-sourcedb/terraform/Spanner_to_SourceDb
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "spanner_to_sourcedb" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Spanner_to_SourceDb"
  name              = "spanner-to-sourcedb"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    changeStreamName = "<changeStreamName>"
    instanceId = "<instanceId>"
    databaseId = "<databaseId>"
    spannerProjectId = "<spannerProjectId>"
    metadataInstance = "<metadataInstance>"
    metadataDatabase = "<metadataDatabase>"
    sourceShardsFilePath = "<sourceShardsFilePath>"
    # startTimestamp = ""
    # endTimestamp = ""
    # shadowTablePrefix = "shadow_"
    # sessionFilePath = "<sessionFilePath>"
    # filtrationMode = "forward_migration"
    # shardingCustomJarPath = ""
    # shardingCustomClassName = ""
    # shardingCustomParameters = ""
    # sourceDbTimezoneOffset = "+00:00"
    # dlqGcsPubSubSubscription = "<dlqGcsPubSubSubscription>"
    # skipDirectoryName = "skip"
    # maxShardConnections = "10000"
    # deadLetterQueueDirectory = ""
    # dlqMaxRetryCount = "500"
    # runMode = "regular"
    # dlqRetryMinutes = "10"
  }
}
```
