v1/README_GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner.md, before:


Avro Files on Cloud Storage to Cloud Spanner template
---
The Cloud Storage Avro files to Cloud Spanner template is a batch pipeline that
reads Avro files exported from Cloud Spanner stored in Cloud Storage and imports
them to a Cloud Spanner database.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/avro-to-cloud-spanner)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **instanceId** : The instance ID of the Spanner database.
* **databaseId** : The database ID of the Spanner database.
* **inputDir** : The Cloud Storage path where the Avro files are imported from.

### Optional parameters

* **spannerHost** : The Cloud Spanner endpoint to call in the template. Only used for testing. (Example: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com). Defaults to: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com.
* **waitForIndexes** : If `true`, the pipeline waits for indexes to be created. If `false`, the job might complete while indexes are still being created in the background. The default value is `false`.
* **waitForForeignKeys** : If `true`, the pipeline waits for foreign keys to be created. If `false`, the job might complete while foreign keys are still being created in the background. The default value is `false`.
* **waitForChangeStreams** : If `true`, the pipeline waits for change streams to be created. If `false`, the job might complete while change streams are still being created in the background. The default value is `true`.
* **waitForSequences** : By default, the import pipeline is blocked on sequence creation. If `false`, the import pipeline might complete with sequences still being created in the background.
* **earlyIndexCreateFlag** : Specifies whether early index creation is enabled. If the template runs a large number of DDL statements, it's more efficient to create indexes before loading data. Therefore, the default behavior is to create the indexes first when the number of DDL statements exceeds a threshold. To disable this feature, set `earlyIndexCreateFlag` to `false`. The default value is `true`.
* **spannerProjectId** : The ID of the Google Cloud project that contains the Spanner database. If not set, the default Google Cloud project is used.
* **ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes** : The timeout in minutes for DDL statements performed by the template. The default value is 30 minutes.
* **spannerPriority** : The request priority for Spanner calls. Possible values are `HIGH`, `MEDIUM`, and `LOW`. The default value is `MEDIUM`.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/spanner/ImportPipeline.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner"

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export INPUT_DIR=<inputDir>

### Optional
export SPANNER_HOST=https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com
export WAIT_FOR_INDEXES=false
export WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS=false
export WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS=true
export WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES=true
export EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG=true
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES=30
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "gcs-avro-to-cloud-spanner-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "databaseId=$DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "inputDir=$INPUT_DIR" \
  --parameters "spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST" \
  --parameters "waitForIndexes=$WAIT_FOR_INDEXES" \
  --parameters "waitForForeignKeys=$WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS" \
  --parameters "waitForChangeStreams=$WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "waitForSequences=$WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES" \
  --parameters "earlyIndexCreateFlag=$EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes=$DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES" \
  --parameters "spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export INPUT_DIR=<inputDir>

### Optional
export SPANNER_HOST=https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com
export WAIT_FOR_INDEXES=false
export WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS=false
export WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS=true
export WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES=true
export EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG=true
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES=30
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="gcs-avro-to-cloud-spanner-job" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner" \
-Dparameters="instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID,databaseId=$DATABASE_ID,inputDir=$INPUT_DIR,spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST,waitForIndexes=$WAIT_FOR_INDEXES,waitForForeignKeys=$WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS,waitForChangeStreams=$WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS,waitForSequences=$WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES,earlyIndexCreateFlag=$EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes=$DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES,spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY" \
-f v1
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "gcs_avro_to_cloud_spanner" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner"
  name              = "gcs-avro-to-cloud-spanner"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    instanceId = "<instanceId>"
    databaseId = "<databaseId>"
    inputDir = "<inputDir>"
    # spannerHost = "https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
    # waitForIndexes = "false"
    # waitForForeignKeys = "false"
    # waitForChangeStreams = "true"
    # waitForSequences = "true"
    # earlyIndexCreateFlag = "true"
    # spannerProjectId = "<spannerProjectId>"
    # ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes = "30"
    # spannerPriority = "<spannerPriority>"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner.md, after:


Avro Files on Cloud Storage to Cloud Spanner template
---
The Cloud Storage Avro files to Cloud Spanner template is a batch pipeline that
reads Avro files exported from Cloud Spanner stored in Cloud Storage and imports
them to a Cloud Spanner database.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/avro-to-cloud-spanner)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **instanceId** : The instance ID of the Spanner database.
* **databaseId** : The database ID of the Spanner database.
* **inputDir** : The Cloud Storage path where the Avro files are imported from.

### Optional parameters

* **spannerHost** : The Cloud Spanner endpoint to call in the template. Only used for testing. (Example: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com). Defaults to: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com.
* **waitForIndexes** : If `true`, the pipeline waits for indexes to be created. If `false`, the job might complete while indexes are still being created in the background. The default value is `false`.
* **waitForForeignKeys** : If `true`, the pipeline waits for foreign keys to be created. If `false`, the job might complete while foreign keys are still being created in the background. The default value is `false`.
* **waitForChangeStreams** : If `true`, the pipeline waits for change streams to be created. If `false`, the job might complete while change streams are still being created in the background. The default value is `true`.
* **waitForSequences** : By default, the import pipeline is blocked on sequence creation. If `false`, the import pipeline might complete with sequences still being created in the background.
* **earlyIndexCreateFlag** : Specifies whether early index creation is enabled. If the template runs a large number of DDL statements, it's more efficient to create indexes before loading data. Therefore, the default behavior is to create the indexes first when the number of DDL statements exceeds a threshold. To disable this feature, set `earlyIndexCreateFlag` to `false`. The default value is `true`.
* **spannerProjectId** : The ID of the Google Cloud project that contains the Spanner database. If not set, the default Google Cloud project is used.
* **ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes** : The timeout in minutes for DDL statements performed by the template. The default value is 30 minutes.
* **spannerPriority** : The request priority for Spanner calls. Possible values are `HIGH`, `MEDIUM`, and `LOW`. The default value is `MEDIUM`.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/spanner/ImportPipeline.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner"

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export INPUT_DIR=<inputDir>

### Optional
export SPANNER_HOST=https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com
export WAIT_FOR_INDEXES=false
export WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS=false
export WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS=true
export WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES=true
export EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG=true
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES=30
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "gcs-avro-to-cloud-spanner-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "databaseId=$DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "inputDir=$INPUT_DIR" \
  --parameters "spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST" \
  --parameters "waitForIndexes=$WAIT_FOR_INDEXES" \
  --parameters "waitForForeignKeys=$WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS" \
  --parameters "waitForChangeStreams=$WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "waitForSequences=$WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES" \
  --parameters "earlyIndexCreateFlag=$EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes=$DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES" \
  --parameters "spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export INPUT_DIR=<inputDir>

### Optional
export SPANNER_HOST=https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com
export WAIT_FOR_INDEXES=false
export WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS=false
export WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS=true
export WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES=true
export EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG=true
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES=30
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="gcs-avro-to-cloud-spanner-job" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner" \
-Dparameters="instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID,databaseId=$DATABASE_ID,inputDir=$INPUT_DIR,spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST,waitForIndexes=$WAIT_FOR_INDEXES,waitForForeignKeys=$WAIT_FOR_FOREIGN_KEYS,waitForChangeStreams=$WAIT_FOR_CHANGE_STREAMS,waitForSequences=$WAIT_FOR_SEQUENCES,earlyIndexCreateFlag=$EARLY_INDEX_CREATE_FLAG,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes=$DDL_CREATION_TIMEOUT_IN_MINUTES,spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY" \
-f v1
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "gcs_avro_to_cloud_spanner" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/GCS_Avro_to_Cloud_Spanner"
  name              = "gcs-avro-to-cloud-spanner"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    instanceId = "<instanceId>"
    databaseId = "<databaseId>"
    inputDir = "<inputDir>"
    # spannerHost = "https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
    # waitForIndexes = "false"
    # waitForForeignKeys = "false"
    # waitForChangeStreams = "true"
    # waitForSequences = "true"
    # earlyIndexCreateFlag = "true"
    # spannerProjectId = "<spannerProjectId>"
    # ddlCreationTimeoutInMinutes = "30"
    # spannerPriority = "<spannerPriority>"
  }
}
```
