v1/README_GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery.md, before:


CSV Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery template
---
The Cloud Storage CSV to BigQuery pipeline is a batch pipeline that allows you to
read CSV files stored in Cloud Storage, and append the result to a BigQuery
table. The CSV files can be uncompressed or compressed in formats listed in
https://beam.apache.org/releases/javadoc/current/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/Compression.html.



:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The Cloud Storage path to the CSV file that contains the text to process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv).
* **schemaJSONPath** : The Cloud Storage path to the JSON file that defines your BigQuery schema.
* **outputTable** : The name of the BigQuery table that stores your processed data. If you reuse an existing BigQuery table, the data is appended to the destination table.
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** : The temporary directory to use during the BigQuery loading process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp_dir).
* **badRecordsOutputTable** : The name of the BigQuery table to use to store the rejected data when processing the CSV files. If you reuse an existing BigQuery table, the data is appended to the destination table. The schema of this table must match the error table schema (https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-storage-csv-to-bigquery#GcsCSVToBigQueryBadRecordsSchema).
* **delimiter** : The column delimiter that the CSV file uses. (Example: ,).
* **csvFormat** : The CSV format according to Apache Commons CSV format. Defaults to: Default.

### Optional parameters

* **containsHeaders** : Whether headers are included in the CSV file. Defaults to: false.
* **csvFileEncoding** : The CSV file character encoding format. Allowed Values are US-ASCII, ISO-8859-1, UTF-8, and UTF-16. Defaults to: UTF-8.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/CSVToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export SCHEMA_JSONPATH=<schemaJSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>
export BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE=<badRecordsOutputTable>
export DELIMITER=<delimiter>
export CSV_FORMAT=<csvFormat>

### Optional
export CONTAINS_HEADERS=false
export CSV_FILE_ENCODING=UTF-8

gcloud dataflow jobs run "gcs-csv-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "schemaJSONPath=$SCHEMA_JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "badRecordsOutputTable=$BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "containsHeaders=$CONTAINS_HEADERS" \
  --parameters "delimiter=$DELIMITER" \
  --parameters "csvFormat=$CSV_FORMAT" \
  --parameters "csvFileEncoding=$CSV_FILE_ENCODING"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export SCHEMA_JSONPATH=<schemaJSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>
export BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE=<badRecordsOutputTable>
export DELIMITER=<delimiter>
export CSV_FORMAT=<csvFormat>

### Optional
export CONTAINS_HEADERS=false
export CSV_FILE_ENCODING=UTF-8

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="gcs-csv-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,schemaJSONPath=$SCHEMA_JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,badRecordsOutputTable=$BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE,containsHeaders=$CONTAINS_HEADERS,delimiter=$DELIMITER,csvFormat=$CSV_FORMAT,csvFileEncoding=$CSV_FILE_ENCODING" \
-f v1
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "gcs_csv_to_bigquery" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery"
  name              = "gcs-csv-to-bigquery"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv"
    schemaJSONPath = "<schemaJSONPath>"
    outputTable = "<outputTable>"
    bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory = "gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp_dir"
    badRecordsOutputTable = "<badRecordsOutputTable>"
    delimiter = ","
    csvFormat = "<csvFormat>"
    # containsHeaders = "false"
    # csvFileEncoding = "UTF-8"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery.md, after:


CSV Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery template
---
The Cloud Storage CSV to BigQuery pipeline is a batch pipeline that allows you to
read CSV files stored in Cloud Storage, and append the result to a BigQuery
table. The CSV files can be uncompressed or compressed in formats listed in
https://beam.apache.org/releases/javadoc/current/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/Compression.html.



:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The Cloud Storage path to the CSV file that contains the text to process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv).
* **schemaJSONPath** : The Cloud Storage path to the JSON file that defines your BigQuery schema.
* **outputTable** : The name of the BigQuery table that stores your processed data. If you reuse an existing BigQuery table, the data is appended to the destination table.
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** : The temporary directory to use during the BigQuery loading process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp_dir).
* **badRecordsOutputTable** : The name of the BigQuery table to use to store the rejected data when processing the CSV files. If you reuse an existing BigQuery table, the data is appended to the destination table. The schema of this table must match the error table schema (https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-storage-csv-to-bigquery#GcsCSVToBigQueryBadRecordsSchema).
* **delimiter** : The column delimiter that the CSV file uses. (Example: ,).
* **csvFormat** : The CSV format according to Apache Commons CSV format. Defaults to: Default.

### Optional parameters

* **containsHeaders** : Whether headers are included in the CSV file. Defaults to: false.
* **csvFileEncoding** : The CSV file character encoding format. Allowed Values are US-ASCII, ISO-8859-1, UTF-8, and UTF-16. Defaults to: UTF-8.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/CSVToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export SCHEMA_JSONPATH=<schemaJSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>
export BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE=<badRecordsOutputTable>
export DELIMITER=<delimiter>
export CSV_FORMAT=<csvFormat>

### Optional
export CONTAINS_HEADERS=false
export CSV_FILE_ENCODING=UTF-8

gcloud dataflow jobs run "gcs-csv-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "schemaJSONPath=$SCHEMA_JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "badRecordsOutputTable=$BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "containsHeaders=$CONTAINS_HEADERS" \
  --parameters "delimiter=$DELIMITER" \
  --parameters "csvFormat=$CSV_FORMAT" \
  --parameters "csvFileEncoding=$CSV_FILE_ENCODING"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export SCHEMA_JSONPATH=<schemaJSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>
export BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE=<badRecordsOutputTable>
export DELIMITER=<delimiter>
export CSV_FORMAT=<csvFormat>

### Optional
export CONTAINS_HEADERS=false
export CSV_FILE_ENCODING=UTF-8

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="gcs-csv-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,schemaJSONPath=$SCHEMA_JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,badRecordsOutputTable=$BAD_RECORDS_OUTPUT_TABLE,containsHeaders=$CONTAINS_HEADERS,delimiter=$DELIMITER,csvFormat=$CSV_FORMAT,csvFileEncoding=$CSV_FILE_ENCODING" \
-f v1
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "gcs_csv_to_bigquery" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/GCS_CSV_to_BigQuery"
  name              = "gcs-csv-to-bigquery"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv"
    schemaJSONPath = "<schemaJSONPath>"
    outputTable = "<outputTable>"
    bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory = "gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp_dir"
    badRecordsOutputTable = "<badRecordsOutputTable>"
    delimiter = ","
    csvFormat = "<csvFormat>"
    # containsHeaders = "false"
    # csvFileEncoding = "UTF-8"
  }
}
```
