v1/README_Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro.md, before:


Pub/Sub to Avro Files on Cloud Storage template
---
The Pub/Sub to Avro files on Cloud Storage template is a streaming pipeline that
reads data from a Pub/Sub topic and writes Avro files into the specified Cloud
Storage bucket.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/pubsub-to-avro)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputTopic** : The Pub/Sub topic to subscribe to for message consumption. The topic name must be in the format projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>.
* **outputDirectory** : The output directory where output Avro files are archived. Must contain / at the end. For example: gs://example-bucket/example-directory/.
* **avroTempDirectory** : The directory for temporary Avro files. Must contain / at the end. For example: gs://example-bucket/example-directory/.

### Optional parameters

* **outputFilenamePrefix** : The output filename prefix for the Avro files. Defaults to: output.
* **outputFilenameSuffix** : The output filename suffix for the Avro files. Defaults to empty.
* **outputShardTemplate** : The shard template defines the dynamic portion of each windowed file. By default, the pipeline uses a single shard for output to the file system within each window. Therefore, all data outputs into a single file per window. The `outputShardTemplate` defaults `to W-P-SS-of-NN`, where `W` is the window date range, `P` is the pane info, `S` is the shard number, and `N` is the number of shards. In case of a single file, the `SS-of-NN` portion of the `outputShardTemplate` is `00-of-01`.
* **yearPattern** : Pattern for formatting the year. Must be one or more of `y` or `Y`. Case makes no difference in the year. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `YYYY`.
* **monthPattern** : Pattern for formatting the month. Must be one or more of the `M` character. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `MM`.
* **dayPattern** : Pattern for formatting the day. Must be one or more of `d` for day of month or `D` for day of year. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `dd`.
* **hourPattern** : Pattern for formatting the hour. Must be one or more of the `H` character. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `HH`.
* **minutePattern** : Pattern for formatting the minute. Must be one or more of the `m` character. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `mm`.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/PubsubToAvro.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro"

### Required
export INPUT_TOPIC=<inputTopic>
export OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=<outputDirectory>
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX=output
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX=""
export OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE=W-P-SS-of-NN
export YEAR_PATTERN=<yearPattern>
export MONTH_PATTERN=<monthPattern>
export DAY_PATTERN=<dayPattern>
export HOUR_PATTERN=<hourPattern>
export MINUTE_PATTERN=<minutePattern>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "cloud-pubsub-to-avro-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputTopic=$INPUT_TOPIC" \
  --parameters "outputDirectory=$OUTPUT_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "outputFilenamePrefix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX" \
  --parameters "outputFilenameSuffix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX" \
  --parameters "avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "outputShardTemplate=$OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE" \
  --parameters "yearPattern=$YEAR_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "monthPattern=$MONTH_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "dayPattern=$DAY_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "hourPattern=$HOUR_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "minutePattern=$MINUTE_PATTERN"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_TOPIC=<inputTopic>
export OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=<outputDirectory>
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX=output
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX=""
export OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE=W-P-SS-of-NN
export YEAR_PATTERN=<yearPattern>
export MONTH_PATTERN=<monthPattern>
export DAY_PATTERN=<dayPattern>
export HOUR_PATTERN=<hourPattern>
export MINUTE_PATTERN=<minutePattern>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-pubsub-to-avro-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro" \
-Dparameters="inputTopic=$INPUT_TOPIC,outputDirectory=$OUTPUT_DIRECTORY,outputFilenamePrefix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX,outputFilenameSuffix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX,avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY,outputShardTemplate=$OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE,yearPattern=$YEAR_PATTERN,monthPattern=$MONTH_PATTERN,dayPattern=$DAY_PATTERN,hourPattern=$HOUR_PATTERN,minutePattern=$MINUTE_PATTERN" \
-f v1
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "cloud_pubsub_to_avro" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro"
  name              = "cloud-pubsub-to-avro"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputTopic = "<inputTopic>"
    outputDirectory = "<outputDirectory>"
    avroTempDirectory = "<avroTempDirectory>"
    # outputFilenamePrefix = "output"
    # outputFilenameSuffix = ""
    # outputShardTemplate = "W-P-SS-of-NN"
    # yearPattern = "<yearPattern>"
    # monthPattern = "<monthPattern>"
    # dayPattern = "<dayPattern>"
    # hourPattern = "<hourPattern>"
    # minutePattern = "<minutePattern>"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro.md, after:


Pub/Sub to Avro Files on Cloud Storage template
---
The Pub/Sub to Avro files on Cloud Storage template is a streaming pipeline that
reads data from a Pub/Sub topic and writes Avro files into the specified Cloud
Storage bucket.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/pubsub-to-avro)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputTopic** : The Pub/Sub topic to subscribe to for message consumption. The topic name must be in the format projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>.
* **outputDirectory** : The output directory where output Avro files are archived. Must contain / at the end. For example: gs://example-bucket/example-directory/.
* **avroTempDirectory** : The directory for temporary Avro files. Must contain / at the end. For example: gs://example-bucket/example-directory/.

### Optional parameters

* **outputFilenamePrefix** : The output filename prefix for the Avro files. Defaults to: output.
* **outputFilenameSuffix** : The output filename suffix for the Avro files. Defaults to empty.
* **outputShardTemplate** : The shard template defines the dynamic portion of each windowed file. By default, the pipeline uses a single shard for output to the file system within each window. Therefore, all data outputs into a single file per window. The `outputShardTemplate` defaults `to W-P-SS-of-NN`, where `W` is the window date range, `P` is the pane info, `S` is the shard number, and `N` is the number of shards. In case of a single file, the `SS-of-NN` portion of the `outputShardTemplate` is `00-of-01`.
* **yearPattern** : Pattern for formatting the year. Must be one or more of `y` or `Y`. Case makes no difference in the year. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `YYYY`.
* **monthPattern** : Pattern for formatting the month. Must be one or more of the `M` character. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `MM`.
* **dayPattern** : Pattern for formatting the day. Must be one or more of `d` for day of month or `D` for day of year. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `dd`.
* **hourPattern** : Pattern for formatting the hour. Must be one or more of the `H` character. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `HH`.
* **minutePattern** : Pattern for formatting the minute. Must be one or more of the `m` character. Optionally, wrap the pattern with characters that aren't alphanumeric or the directory ('/') character. Defaults to `mm`.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/PubsubToAvro.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro"

### Required
export INPUT_TOPIC=<inputTopic>
export OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=<outputDirectory>
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX=output
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX=""
export OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE=W-P-SS-of-NN
export YEAR_PATTERN=<yearPattern>
export MONTH_PATTERN=<monthPattern>
export DAY_PATTERN=<dayPattern>
export HOUR_PATTERN=<hourPattern>
export MINUTE_PATTERN=<minutePattern>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "cloud-pubsub-to-avro-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputTopic=$INPUT_TOPIC" \
  --parameters "outputDirectory=$OUTPUT_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "outputFilenamePrefix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX" \
  --parameters "outputFilenameSuffix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX" \
  --parameters "avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "outputShardTemplate=$OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE" \
  --parameters "yearPattern=$YEAR_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "monthPattern=$MONTH_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "dayPattern=$DAY_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "hourPattern=$HOUR_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "minutePattern=$MINUTE_PATTERN"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_TOPIC=<inputTopic>
export OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=<outputDirectory>
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX=output
export OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX=""
export OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE=W-P-SS-of-NN
export YEAR_PATTERN=<yearPattern>
export MONTH_PATTERN=<monthPattern>
export DAY_PATTERN=<dayPattern>
export HOUR_PATTERN=<hourPattern>
export MINUTE_PATTERN=<minutePattern>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-pubsub-to-avro-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro" \
-Dparameters="inputTopic=$INPUT_TOPIC,outputDirectory=$OUTPUT_DIRECTORY,outputFilenamePrefix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_PREFIX,outputFilenameSuffix=$OUTPUT_FILENAME_SUFFIX,avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY,outputShardTemplate=$OUTPUT_SHARD_TEMPLATE,yearPattern=$YEAR_PATTERN,monthPattern=$MONTH_PATTERN,dayPattern=$DAY_PATTERN,hourPattern=$HOUR_PATTERN,minutePattern=$MINUTE_PATTERN" \
-f v1
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "cloud_pubsub_to_avro" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/Cloud_PubSub_to_Avro"
  name              = "cloud-pubsub-to-avro"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputTopic = "<inputTopic>"
    outputDirectory = "<outputDirectory>"
    avroTempDirectory = "<avroTempDirectory>"
    # outputFilenamePrefix = "output"
    # outputFilenameSuffix = ""
    # outputShardTemplate = "W-P-SS-of-NN"
    # yearPattern = "<yearPattern>"
    # monthPattern = "<monthPattern>"
    # dayPattern = "<dayPattern>"
    # hourPattern = "<hourPattern>"
    # minutePattern = "<minutePattern>"
  }
}
```
