v1/README_Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub.md, before:


Text Files on Cloud Storage to Pub/Sub template
---
This template creates a streaming pipeline that continuously polls for new text
files uploaded to Cloud Storage, reads each file line by line, and publishes
strings to a Pub/Sub topic. The template publishes records in a newline-delimited
file containing JSON records or CSV file to a Pub/Sub topic for real-time
processing. You can use this template to replay data to Pub/Sub.

The pipeline runs indefinitely and needs to be terminated manually via a <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#cancel">cancel</a>
and not a <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#drain">drain</a>,
due to its use of the <code>Watch</code> transform, which is a
<code>SplittableDoFn</code> that does not support draining.

Currently, the polling interval is fixed and set to 10 seconds. This template
does not set any timestamp on the individual records, so the event time is equal
to the publishing time during execution. If your pipeline relies on an accurate
event time for processing, you should not use this pipeline.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/text-to-pubsub-stream)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The input file pattern to read from. (Example: gs://bucket-name/files/*.json).
* **outputTopic** : The Pub/Sub input topic to write to. The name must be in the format `projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>`. (Example: projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name).

### Optional parameters




## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/TextToPubsubStream.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional

gcloud dataflow jobs run "stream-gcs-text-to-cloud-pubsub-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-gcs-text-to-cloud-pubsub-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC" \
-f v1
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "stream_gcs_text_to_cloud_pubsub" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub"
  name              = "stream-gcs-text-to-cloud-pubsub"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://bucket-name/files/*.json"
    outputTopic = "projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub.md, after:


Text Files on Cloud Storage to Pub/Sub template
---
This template creates a streaming pipeline that continuously polls for new text
files uploaded to Cloud Storage, reads each file line by line, and publishes
strings to a Pub/Sub topic. The template publishes records in a newline-delimited
file containing JSON records or CSV file to a Pub/Sub topic for real-time
processing. You can use this template to replay data to Pub/Sub.

The pipeline runs indefinitely and needs to be terminated manually via a <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#cancel">cancel</a>
and not a <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#drain">drain</a>,
due to its use of the <code>Watch</code> transform, which is a
<code>SplittableDoFn</code> that does not support draining.

Currently, the polling interval is fixed and set to 10 seconds. This template
does not set any timestamp on the individual records, so the event time is equal
to the publishing time during execution. If your pipeline relies on an accurate
event time for processing, you should not use this pipeline.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/text-to-pubsub-stream)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The input file pattern to read from. (Example: gs://bucket-name/files/*.json).
* **outputTopic** : The Pub/Sub input topic to write to. The name must be in the format `projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>`. (Example: projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name).

### Optional parameters




## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/TextToPubsubStream.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional

gcloud dataflow jobs run "stream-gcs-text-to-cloud-pubsub-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-gcs-text-to-cloud-pubsub-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC" \
-f v1
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "stream_gcs_text_to_cloud_pubsub" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/Stream_GCS_Text_to_Cloud_PubSub"
  name              = "stream-gcs-text-to-cloud-pubsub"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://bucket-name/files/*.json"
    outputTopic = "projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name"
  }
}
```
