v1/README_Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery.md, before:


Data Masking/Tokenization from Cloud Storage to BigQuery (using Cloud DLP) template
---
The Data Masking/Tokenization from Cloud Storage to BigQuery template uses <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs">Sensitive Data Protection</a> and
creates a streaming pipeline that does the following steps:
1. Reads CSV files from a Cloud Storage bucket.
2. Calls the Cloud Data Loss Prevention API (part of Sensitive Data Protection)
for de-identification.
3. Writes the de-identified data into the specified BigQuery table.

The template supports using both a Sensitive Data Protection <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs/creating-templates">inspection
template</a> and a Sensitive Data Protection <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs/creating-templates-deid">de-identification
template</a>. As a result, the template supports both of the following tasks:
- Inspect for potentially sensitive information and de-identify the data.
- De-identify structured data where columns are specified to be de-identified and
no inspection is needed.

Note: This template does not support a regional path for de-identification
template location. Only a global path is supported.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/dlp-text-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The CSV files to read input data records from. Wildcards are also accepted. (Example: gs://mybucket/my_csv_filename.csv or gs://mybucket/file-*.csv).
* **deidentifyTemplateName** : The Sensitive Data Protection de-identification template to use for API requests, specified with the pattern projects/<PROJECT_ID>/deidentifyTemplates/<TEMPLATE_ID>. (Example: projects/your-project-id/locations/global/deidentifyTemplates/generated_template_id).
* **datasetName** : The BigQuery dataset to use when sending tokenized results. The dataset must exist prior to execution.
* **dlpProjectId** : The ID for the Google Cloud project that owns the DLP API resource. This project can be the same project that owns the Sensitive Data Protection templates, or it can be a separate project.

### Optional parameters

* **inspectTemplateName** : The Sensitive Data Protection inspection template to use for API requests, specified with the pattern projects/<PROJECT_ID>/identifyTemplates/<TEMPLATE_ID>. (Example: projects/your-project-id/locations/global/inspectTemplates/generated_template_id).
* **batchSize** : The chunking or batch size to use for sending data to inspect and detokenize. For a CSV file, the value of `batchSize` is the number of rows in a batch. Determine the batch size based on the size of the records and the sizing of the file. The DLP API has a payload size limit of 524 KB per API call.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/DLPTextToBigQueryStreaming.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME=<deidentifyTemplateName>
export DATASET_NAME=<datasetName>
export DLP_PROJECT_ID=<dlpProjectId>

### Optional
export INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME=<inspectTemplateName>
export BATCH_SIZE=<batchSize>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "stream-dlp-gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "deidentifyTemplateName=$DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME" \
  --parameters "inspectTemplateName=$INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME" \
  --parameters "batchSize=$BATCH_SIZE" \
  --parameters "datasetName=$DATASET_NAME" \
  --parameters "dlpProjectId=$DLP_PROJECT_ID"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME=<deidentifyTemplateName>
export DATASET_NAME=<datasetName>
export DLP_PROJECT_ID=<dlpProjectId>

### Optional
export INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME=<inspectTemplateName>
export BATCH_SIZE=<batchSize>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-dlp-gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,deidentifyTemplateName=$DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME,inspectTemplateName=$INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME,batchSize=$BATCH_SIZE,datasetName=$DATASET_NAME,dlpProjectId=$DLP_PROJECT_ID" \
-f v1
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "stream_dlp_gcs_text_to_bigquery" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery"
  name              = "stream-dlp-gcs-text-to-bigquery"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://mybucket/my_csv_filename.csv or gs://mybucket/file-*.csv"
    deidentifyTemplateName = "projects/your-project-id/locations/global/deidentifyTemplates/generated_template_id"
    datasetName = "<datasetName>"
    dlpProjectId = "<dlpProjectId>"
    # inspectTemplateName = "projects/your-project-id/locations/global/inspectTemplates/generated_template_id"
    # batchSize = "<batchSize>"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery.md, after:


Data Masking/Tokenization from Cloud Storage to BigQuery (using Cloud DLP) template
---
The Data Masking/Tokenization from Cloud Storage to BigQuery template uses <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs">Sensitive Data Protection</a> and
creates a streaming pipeline that does the following steps:
1. Reads CSV files from a Cloud Storage bucket.
2. Calls the Cloud Data Loss Prevention API (part of Sensitive Data Protection)
for de-identification.
3. Writes the de-identified data into the specified BigQuery table.

The template supports using both a Sensitive Data Protection <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs/creating-templates">inspection
template</a> and a Sensitive Data Protection <a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dlp/docs/creating-templates-deid">de-identification
template</a>. As a result, the template supports both of the following tasks:
- Inspect for potentially sensitive information and de-identify the data.
- De-identify structured data where columns are specified to be de-identified and
no inspection is needed.

Note: This template does not support a regional path for de-identification
template location. Only a global path is supported.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/dlp-text-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The CSV files to read input data records from. Wildcards are also accepted. (Example: gs://mybucket/my_csv_filename.csv or gs://mybucket/file-*.csv).
* **deidentifyTemplateName** : The Sensitive Data Protection de-identification template to use for API requests, specified with the pattern projects/<PROJECT_ID>/deidentifyTemplates/<TEMPLATE_ID>. (Example: projects/your-project-id/locations/global/deidentifyTemplates/generated_template_id).
* **datasetName** : The BigQuery dataset to use when sending tokenized results. The dataset must exist prior to execution.
* **dlpProjectId** : The ID for the Google Cloud project that owns the DLP API resource. This project can be the same project that owns the Sensitive Data Protection templates, or it can be a separate project.

### Optional parameters

* **inspectTemplateName** : The Sensitive Data Protection inspection template to use for API requests, specified with the pattern projects/<PROJECT_ID>/identifyTemplates/<TEMPLATE_ID>. (Example: projects/your-project-id/locations/global/inspectTemplates/generated_template_id).
* **batchSize** : The chunking or batch size to use for sending data to inspect and detokenize. For a CSV file, the value of `batchSize` is the number of rows in a batch. Determine the batch size based on the size of the records and the sizing of the file. The DLP API has a payload size limit of 524 KB per API call.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/DLPTextToBigQueryStreaming.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-f v1
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME=<deidentifyTemplateName>
export DATASET_NAME=<datasetName>
export DLP_PROJECT_ID=<dlpProjectId>

### Optional
export INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME=<inspectTemplateName>
export BATCH_SIZE=<batchSize>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "stream-dlp-gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "deidentifyTemplateName=$DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME" \
  --parameters "inspectTemplateName=$INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME" \
  --parameters "batchSize=$BATCH_SIZE" \
  --parameters "datasetName=$DATASET_NAME" \
  --parameters "dlpProjectId=$DLP_PROJECT_ID"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME=<deidentifyTemplateName>
export DATASET_NAME=<datasetName>
export DLP_PROJECT_ID=<dlpProjectId>

### Optional
export INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME=<inspectTemplateName>
export BATCH_SIZE=<batchSize>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-dlp-gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,deidentifyTemplateName=$DEIDENTIFY_TEMPLATE_NAME,inspectTemplateName=$INSPECT_TEMPLATE_NAME,batchSize=$BATCH_SIZE,datasetName=$DATASET_NAME,dlpProjectId=$DLP_PROJECT_ID" \
-f v1
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v1/terraform/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_job" "stream_dlp_gcs_text_to_bigquery" {

  provider          = google-beta
  template_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/Stream_DLP_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery"
  name              = "stream-dlp-gcs-text-to-bigquery"
  region            = var.region
  temp_gcs_location = "gs://bucket-name-here/temp"
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://mybucket/my_csv_filename.csv or gs://mybucket/file-*.csv"
    deidentifyTemplateName = "projects/your-project-id/locations/global/deidentifyTemplates/generated_template_id"
    datasetName = "<datasetName>"
    dlpProjectId = "<dlpProjectId>"
    # inspectTemplateName = "projects/your-project-id/locations/global/inspectTemplates/generated_template_id"
    # batchSize = "<batchSize>"
  }
}
```
