v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/README_Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, before:


Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) template
---
The Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery pipeline is a streaming pipeline that
allows you to stream text files stored in Cloud Storage, transform them using a
JavaScript User Defined Function (UDF) that you provide, and append the result to
BigQuery.

The pipeline runs indefinitely and needs to be terminated manually via a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#cancel">cancel</a>
and not a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#drain">drain</a>,
due to its use of the
<code>Watch</code> transform, which is a splittable <code>DoFn</code> that does
not support
draining.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/text-to-bigquery-stream)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The gs:// path to the text in Cloud Storage you'd like to process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt).
* **JSONPath** : The gs:// path to the JSON file that defines your BigQuery schema, stored in Cloud Storage. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json).
* **outputTable** : The location of the BigQuery table to use to store the processed data. If you reuse an existing table, it is overwritten. (Example: <PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>).
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the `.js` file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) you want to use. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) that you want to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples) (Example: transform_udf1).
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** : Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir).

### Optional parameters

* **outputDeadletterTable** : Table for messages that failed to reach the output table. If a table doesn't exist, it is created during pipeline execution. If not specified, `<outputTableSpec>_error_records` is used. (Example: <PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>).
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** : This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.
* **useStorageWriteApi** : If true, the pipeline uses the BigQuery Storage Write API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/write-api). The default value is `false`. For more information, see Using the Storage Write API (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#storage-write-api).
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the number of write streams. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the triggering frequency, in seconds. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter.
* **pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage path pattern for the Python code containing your user-defined functions. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-function.py).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/TextToBigQueryStreaming.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-f v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "JSONPath=$JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
  --parameters "pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath=$PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,JSONPath=$JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC,pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath=$PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
-f v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/terraform/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "stream_gcs_text_to_bigquery_flex" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"
  name              = "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt"
    JSONPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json"
    outputTable = "<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>"
    javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js"
    javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "transform_udf1"
    bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory = "gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
    # pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-function.py"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/README_Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, after:


Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) template
---
The Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery pipeline is a streaming pipeline that
allows you to stream text files stored in Cloud Storage, transform them using a
JavaScript User Defined Function (UDF) that you provide, and append the result to
BigQuery.

The pipeline runs indefinitely and needs to be terminated manually via a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#cancel">cancel</a>
and not a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#drain">drain</a>,
due to its use of the
<code>Watch</code> transform, which is a splittable <code>DoFn</code> that does
not support
draining.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/text-to-bigquery-stream)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputFilePattern** : The gs:// path to the text in Cloud Storage you'd like to process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt).
* **JSONPath** : The gs:// path to the JSON file that defines your BigQuery schema, stored in Cloud Storage. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json).
* **outputTable** : The location of the BigQuery table to use to store the processed data. If you reuse an existing table, it is overwritten. (Example: <PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>).
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the `.js` file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) you want to use. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) that you want to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples) (Example: transform_udf1).
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** : Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir).

### Optional parameters

* **outputDeadletterTable** : Table for messages that failed to reach the output table. If a table doesn't exist, it is created during pipeline execution. If not specified, `<outputTableSpec>_error_records` is used. (Example: <PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>).
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** : This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.
* **useStorageWriteApi** : If `true`, the pipeline uses the BigQuery Storage Write API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/write-api). The default value is `false`. For more information, see Using the Storage Write API (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#storage-write-api).
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the number of write streams. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the triggering frequency, in seconds. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter.
* **pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage path pattern for the Python code containing your user-defined functions. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-function.py).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/TextToBigQueryStreaming.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-f v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "JSONPath=$JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
  --parameters "pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath=$PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,JSONPath=$JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC,pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath=$PYTHON_EXTERNAL_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
-f v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/terraform/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "stream_gcs_text_to_bigquery_flex" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"
  name              = "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt"
    JSONPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json"
    outputTable = "<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>"
    javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js"
    javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "transform_udf1"
    bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory = "gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
    # pythonExternalTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-function.py"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
  }
}
```
