v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery/README_PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, before:


Pub/Sub Proto to BigQuery template
---
The Pub/Sub proto to BigQuery template is a streaming pipeline that ingests proto
data from a Pub/Sub subscription into a BigQuery table. Any errors that occur
while writing to the BigQuery table are streamed into a Pub/Sub unprocessed
topic.

A JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) can be provided to transform data.
Errors while executing the UDF can be sent to either a separate Pub/Sub topic or
the same unprocessed topic as the BigQuery errors.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/pubsub-proto-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **protoSchemaPath** : The Cloud Storage location of the self-contained proto schema file. For example, gs://path/to/my/file.pb. You can generate this file with the `--descriptor_set_out` flag of the protoc command. The `--include_imports` flag guarantees that the file is self-contained.
* **fullMessageName** : The full proto message name. For example, `package.name`. `MessageName`, where `package.name` is the value provided for the `package` statement and not the `java_package` statement.
* **inputSubscription** : The Pub/Sub input subscription to read from. (Example: projects/<PROJECT_ID>/subscription/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>).
* **outputTableSpec** : The BigQuery output table location to write the output to. For example, `<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>`.Depending on the `createDisposition` specified, the output table might be created automatically using the user provided Avro schema.
* **outputTopic** : The Pub/Sub topic to use for unprocessed records. (Example: projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>).

### Optional parameters

* **preserveProtoFieldNames** : To preserve the original proto field name in JSON, set this property to true. To use more standard JSON names, set to false. For example, `false` would change `field_name` to `fieldName`. Defaults to: false.
* **bigQueryTableSchemaPath** : The Cloud Storage path to the BigQuery schema path. If this value isn't provided, then the schema is inferred from the Proto schema. (Example: gs://MyBucket/bq_schema.json).
* **udfOutputTopic** : The Pub/Sub topic storing the UDF errors. If this value isn't provided, UDF errors are sent to the same topic as `outputTopic`. (Example: projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name).
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the write semantics. To use at-least-once semantics (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#at-least-once-semantics), set this parameter to true`. To use exactly-once semantics, set the parameter to `false`. This parameter applies only when `useStorageWriteApi` is `true`. The default value is `false`.
* **writeDisposition** : The BigQuery WriteDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload) value. For example, `WRITE_APPEND`, `WRITE_EMPTY`, or `WRITE_TRUNCATE`. Defaults to `WRITE_APPEND`.
* **createDisposition** : The BigQuery CreateDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload). For example, `CREATE_IF_NEEDED` and `CREATE_NEVER`. Defaults to `CREATE_IF_NEEDED`.
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the .js file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. (Example: gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.
* **useStorageWriteApi** : If true, the pipeline uses the BigQuery Storage Write API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/write-api). The default value is `false`. For more information, see Using the Storage Write API (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#storage-write-api).
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the number of write streams. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the triggering frequency, in seconds. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Pub/Sub Proto to BigQuery Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/PubsubProtoToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-f v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH=<protoSchemaPath>
export FULL_MESSAGE_NAME=<fullMessageName>
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional
export PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES=false
export BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQueryTableSchemaPath>
export UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC=<udfOutputTopic>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "pubsub-proto-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "protoSchemaPath=$PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "fullMessageName=$FULL_MESSAGE_NAME" \
  --parameters "preserveProtoFieldNames=$PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES" \
  --parameters "bigQueryTableSchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "udfOutputTopic=$UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION" \
  --parameters "outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH=<protoSchemaPath>
export FULL_MESSAGE_NAME=<fullMessageName>
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional
export PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES=false
export BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQueryTableSchemaPath>
export UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC=<udfOutputTopic>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="pubsub-proto-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="protoSchemaPath=$PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH,fullMessageName=$FULL_MESSAGE_NAME,preserveProtoFieldNames=$PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES,bigQueryTableSchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH,udfOutputTopic=$UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION,outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC,writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION,createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION,outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
-f v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery/terraform/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "pubsub_proto_to_bigquery_flex" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex"
  name              = "pubsub-proto-to-bigquery-flex"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    protoSchemaPath = "<protoSchemaPath>"
    fullMessageName = "<fullMessageName>"
    inputSubscription = "projects/<PROJECT_ID>/subscription/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>"
    outputTableSpec = "<outputTableSpec>"
    outputTopic = "projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>"
    # preserveProtoFieldNames = "false"
    # bigQueryTableSchemaPath = "gs://MyBucket/bq_schema.json"
    # udfOutputTopic = "projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # writeDisposition = "WRITE_APPEND"
    # createDisposition = "CREATE_IF_NEEDED"
    # javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js"
    # javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery/README_PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, after:


Pub/Sub Proto to BigQuery template
---
The Pub/Sub proto to BigQuery template is a streaming pipeline that ingests proto
data from a Pub/Sub subscription into a BigQuery table. Any errors that occur
while writing to the BigQuery table are streamed into a Pub/Sub unprocessed
topic.

A JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) can be provided to transform data.
Errors while executing the UDF can be sent to either a separate Pub/Sub topic or
the same unprocessed topic as the BigQuery errors.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/pubsub-proto-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **protoSchemaPath** : The Cloud Storage location of the self-contained proto schema file. For example, gs://path/to/my/file.pb. You can generate this file with the `--descriptor_set_out` flag of the protoc command. The `--include_imports` flag guarantees that the file is self-contained.
* **fullMessageName** : The full proto message name. For example, `package.name`. `MessageName`, where `package.name` is the value provided for the `package` statement and not the `java_package` statement.
* **inputSubscription** : The Pub/Sub input subscription to read from. (Example: projects/<PROJECT_ID>/subscription/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>).
* **outputTableSpec** : The BigQuery output table location to write the output to. For example, `<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>`.Depending on the `createDisposition` specified, the output table might be created automatically using the user provided Avro schema.
* **outputTopic** : The Pub/Sub topic to use for unprocessed records. (Example: projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>).

### Optional parameters

* **preserveProtoFieldNames** : To preserve the original proto field name in JSON, set this property to true. To use more standard JSON names, set to false. For example, `false` would change `field_name` to `fieldName`. Defaults to: false.
* **bigQueryTableSchemaPath** : The Cloud Storage path to the BigQuery schema path. If this value isn't provided, then the schema is inferred from the Proto schema. (Example: gs://MyBucket/bq_schema.json).
* **udfOutputTopic** : The Pub/Sub topic storing the UDF errors. If this value isn't provided, UDF errors are sent to the same topic as `outputTopic`. (Example: projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name).
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the write semantics. To use at-least-once semantics (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#at-least-once-semantics), set this parameter to true`. To use exactly-once semantics, set the parameter to `false`. This parameter applies only when `useStorageWriteApi` is `true`. The default value is `false`.
* **writeDisposition** : The BigQuery WriteDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload) value. For example, `WRITE_APPEND`, `WRITE_EMPTY`, or `WRITE_TRUNCATE`. Defaults to `WRITE_APPEND`.
* **createDisposition** : The BigQuery CreateDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload). For example, `CREATE_IF_NEEDED` and `CREATE_NEVER`. Defaults to `CREATE_IF_NEEDED`.
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the .js file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. (Example: gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.
* **useStorageWriteApi** : If true, the pipeline uses the BigQuery Storage Write API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/write-api). The default value is `false`. For more information, see Using the Storage Write API (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#storage-write-api).
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the number of write streams. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the triggering frequency, in seconds. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Pub/Sub Proto to BigQuery Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/PubsubProtoToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-f v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH=<protoSchemaPath>
export FULL_MESSAGE_NAME=<fullMessageName>
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional
export PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES=false
export BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQueryTableSchemaPath>
export UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC=<udfOutputTopic>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "pubsub-proto-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "protoSchemaPath=$PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "fullMessageName=$FULL_MESSAGE_NAME" \
  --parameters "preserveProtoFieldNames=$PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES" \
  --parameters "bigQueryTableSchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "udfOutputTopic=$UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION" \
  --parameters "outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH=<protoSchemaPath>
export FULL_MESSAGE_NAME=<fullMessageName>
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_TOPIC=<outputTopic>

### Optional
export PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES=false
export BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQueryTableSchemaPath>
export UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC=<udfOutputTopic>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="pubsub-proto-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="protoSchemaPath=$PROTO_SCHEMA_PATH,fullMessageName=$FULL_MESSAGE_NAME,preserveProtoFieldNames=$PRESERVE_PROTO_FIELD_NAMES,bigQueryTableSchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_TABLE_SCHEMA_PATH,udfOutputTopic=$UDF_OUTPUT_TOPIC,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION,outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC,writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION,createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION,outputTopic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
-f v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/pubsub-binary-to-bigquery/terraform/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "pubsub_proto_to_bigquery_flex" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/PubSub_Proto_to_BigQuery_Flex"
  name              = "pubsub-proto-to-bigquery-flex"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    protoSchemaPath = "<protoSchemaPath>"
    fullMessageName = "<fullMessageName>"
    inputSubscription = "projects/<PROJECT_ID>/subscription/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>"
    outputTableSpec = "<outputTableSpec>"
    outputTopic = "projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<TOPIC_NAME>"
    # preserveProtoFieldNames = "false"
    # bigQueryTableSchemaPath = "gs://MyBucket/bq_schema.json"
    # udfOutputTopic = "projects/your-project-id/topics/your-topic-name"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # writeDisposition = "WRITE_APPEND"
    # createDisposition = "CREATE_IF_NEEDED"
    # javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js"
    # javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
  }
}
```
