v2/kafka-to-bigquery/README_Kafka_to_BigQuery.md, before:


Kafka to BigQuery template
---
The Apache Kafka to BigQuery template is a streaming pipeline which ingests text
data from Apache Kafka, executes a user-defined function (UDF), and outputs the
resulting records to BigQuery. Any errors which occur in the transformation of
the data, execution of the UDF, or inserting into the output table are inserted
into a separate errors table in BigQuery. If the errors table does not exist
prior to execution, then it is created.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/kafka-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Kafka_to_BigQuery).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **outputTableSpec** : The BigQuery output table location to write the output to. For example, `<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>`.Depending on the `createDisposition` specified, the output table might be created automatically using the user provided Avro schema.

### Optional parameters

* **readBootstrapServers** : Kafka Bootstrap Server list, separated by commas. (Example: localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093).
* **bootstrapServers** : The host address of the running Apache Kafka broker servers in a comma-separated list. Each host address must be in the format `35.70.252.199:9092`. (Example: localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093).
* **kafkaReadTopics** : Kafka topic(s) to read input from. (Example: topic1,topic2).
* **inputTopics** : The Apache Kafka input topics to read from in a comma-separated list.  (Example: topic1,topic2).
* **outputDeadletterTable** : BigQuery table for failed messages. Messages failed to reach the output table for different reasons (e.g., mismatched schema, malformed json) are written to this table. If it doesn't exist, it will be created during pipeline execution. If not specified, "outputTableSpec_error_records" is used instead. (Example: your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name).
* **messageFormat** : The message format. Can be AVRO or JSON. Defaults to: JSON.
* **avroSchemaPath** : Cloud Storage path to Avro schema file. For example, gs://MyBucket/file.avsc.
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** : This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the .js file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. (Example: gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.
* **writeDisposition** : The BigQuery WriteDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload) value. For example, `WRITE_APPEND`, `WRITE_EMPTY`, or `WRITE_TRUNCATE`. Defaults to `WRITE_APPEND`.
* **createDisposition** : The BigQuery CreateDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload). For example, `CREATE_IF_NEEDED` and `CREATE_NEVER`. Defaults to `CREATE_IF_NEEDED`.
* **useStorageWriteApi** : If true, the pipeline uses the BigQuery Storage Write API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/write-api). The default value is `false`. For more information, see Using the Storage Write API (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#storage-write-api).
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the number of write streams. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the triggering frequency, in seconds. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Kafka to BigQuery Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/kafka-to-bigquery/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/KafkaToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Kafka_to_BigQuery" \
-f v2/kafka-to-bigquery
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Kafka_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Kafka_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<readBootstrapServers>
export BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<bootstrapServers>
export KAFKA_READ_TOPICS=<kafkaReadTopics>
export INPUT_TOPICS=<inputTopics>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export MESSAGE_FORMAT=JSON
export AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH=<avroSchemaPath>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "kafka-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "readBootstrapServers=$READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS" \
  --parameters "bootstrapServers=$BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS" \
  --parameters "kafkaReadTopics=$KAFKA_READ_TOPICS" \
  --parameters "inputTopics=$INPUT_TOPICS" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "messageFormat=$MESSAGE_FORMAT" \
  --parameters "avroSchemaPath=$AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
  --parameters "outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<readBootstrapServers>
export BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<bootstrapServers>
export KAFKA_READ_TOPICS=<kafkaReadTopics>
export INPUT_TOPICS=<inputTopics>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export MESSAGE_FORMAT=JSON
export AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH=<avroSchemaPath>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="kafka-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="Kafka_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="readBootstrapServers=$READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS,bootstrapServers=$BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS,kafkaReadTopics=$KAFKA_READ_TOPICS,inputTopics=$INPUT_TOPICS,outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,messageFormat=$MESSAGE_FORMAT,avroSchemaPath=$AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES,outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC,writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION,createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
-f v2/kafka-to-bigquery
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/kafka-to-bigquery/terraform/Kafka_to_BigQuery
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "kafka_to_bigquery" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Kafka_to_BigQuery"
  name              = "kafka-to-bigquery"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    outputTableSpec = "<outputTableSpec>"
    # readBootstrapServers = "localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093"
    # bootstrapServers = "localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093"
    # kafkaReadTopics = "topic1,topic2"
    # inputTopics = "topic1,topic2"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name"
    # messageFormat = "JSON"
    # avroSchemaPath = "<avroSchemaPath>"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js"
    # javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
    # writeDisposition = "WRITE_APPEND"
    # createDisposition = "CREATE_IF_NEEDED"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v2/kafka-to-bigquery/README_Kafka_to_BigQuery.md, after:


Kafka to BigQuery template
---
The Apache Kafka to BigQuery template is a streaming pipeline which ingests text
data from Apache Kafka, executes a user-defined function (UDF), and outputs the
resulting records to BigQuery. Any errors which occur in the transformation of
the data, execution of the UDF, or inserting into the output table are inserted
into a separate errors table in BigQuery. If the errors table does not exist
prior to execution, then it is created.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/kafka-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Kafka_to_BigQuery).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **outputTableSpec** : The BigQuery output table location to write the output to. For example, `<PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>`.Depending on the `createDisposition` specified, the output table might be created automatically using the user provided Avro schema.

### Optional parameters

* **readBootstrapServers** : Kafka Bootstrap Server list, separated by commas. (Example: localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093).
* **bootstrapServers** : The host address of the running Apache Kafka broker servers in a comma-separated list. Each host address must be in the format `35.70.252.199:9092`. (Example: localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093).
* **kafkaReadTopics** : Kafka topic(s) to read input from. (Example: topic1,topic2).
* **inputTopics** : The Apache Kafka input topics to read from in a comma-separated list.  (Example: topic1,topic2).
* **outputDeadletterTable** : BigQuery table for failed messages. Messages failed to reach the output table for different reasons (e.g., mismatched schema, malformed json) are written to this table. If it doesn't exist, it will be created during pipeline execution. If not specified, "outputTableSpec_error_records" is used instead. (Example: your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name).
* **messageFormat** : The message format. Can be AVRO or JSON. Defaults to: JSON.
* **avroSchemaPath** : Cloud Storage path to Avro schema file. For example, gs://MyBucket/file.avsc.
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** : This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the .js file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. (Example: gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.
* **writeDisposition** : The BigQuery WriteDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload) value. For example, `WRITE_APPEND`, `WRITE_EMPTY`, or `WRITE_TRUNCATE`. Defaults to `WRITE_APPEND`.
* **createDisposition** : The BigQuery CreateDisposition (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/Job#jobconfigurationload). For example, `CREATE_IF_NEEDED` and `CREATE_NEVER`. Defaults to `CREATE_IF_NEEDED`.
* **useStorageWriteApi** : If true, the pipeline uses the BigQuery Storage Write API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/write-api). The default value is `false`. For more information, see Using the Storage Write API (https://beam.apache.org/documentation/io/built-in/google-bigquery/#storage-write-api).
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the number of write streams. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** : When using the Storage Write API, specifies the triggering frequency, in seconds. If `useStorageWriteApi` is `true` and `useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce` is `false`, then you must set this parameter.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Kafka to BigQuery Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/kafka-to-bigquery/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/KafkaToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Kafka_to_BigQuery" \
-f v2/kafka-to-bigquery
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Kafka_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Kafka_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<readBootstrapServers>
export BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<bootstrapServers>
export KAFKA_READ_TOPICS=<kafkaReadTopics>
export INPUT_TOPICS=<inputTopics>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export MESSAGE_FORMAT=JSON
export AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH=<avroSchemaPath>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "kafka-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "readBootstrapServers=$READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS" \
  --parameters "bootstrapServers=$BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS" \
  --parameters "kafkaReadTopics=$KAFKA_READ_TOPICS" \
  --parameters "inputTopics=$INPUT_TOPICS" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "messageFormat=$MESSAGE_FORMAT" \
  --parameters "avroSchemaPath=$AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
  --parameters "outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<readBootstrapServers>
export BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<bootstrapServers>
export KAFKA_READ_TOPICS=<kafkaReadTopics>
export INPUT_TOPICS=<inputTopics>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export MESSAGE_FORMAT=JSON
export AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH=<avroSchemaPath>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="kafka-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="Kafka_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="readBootstrapServers=$READ_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS,bootstrapServers=$BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS,kafkaReadTopics=$KAFKA_READ_TOPICS,inputTopics=$INPUT_TOPICS,outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,messageFormat=$MESSAGE_FORMAT,avroSchemaPath=$AVRO_SCHEMA_PATH,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES,outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC,writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION,createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
-f v2/kafka-to-bigquery
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/kafka-to-bigquery/terraform/Kafka_to_BigQuery
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "kafka_to_bigquery" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Kafka_to_BigQuery"
  name              = "kafka-to-bigquery"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    outputTableSpec = "<outputTableSpec>"
    # readBootstrapServers = "localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093"
    # bootstrapServers = "localhost:9092,127.0.0.1:9093"
    # kafkaReadTopics = "topic1,topic2"
    # inputTopics = "topic1,topic2"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name"
    # messageFormat = "JSON"
    # avroSchemaPath = "<avroSchemaPath>"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js"
    # javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
    # writeDisposition = "WRITE_APPEND"
    # createDisposition = "CREATE_IF_NEEDED"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
  }
}
```
