v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/README_BigQuery_to_Bigtable.md, before:


BigQuery to Bigtable template
---
A pipeline to export a BigQuery table into Bigtable.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/bigquery-to-bigtable)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=BigQuery_to_Bigtable).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **readIdColumn** : The name of the BigQuery column storing the unique identifier of the row.
* **bigtableWriteInstanceId** : The ID of the Bigtable instance that contains the table.
* **bigtableWriteTableId** : The ID of the Bigtable table to write to.
* **bigtableWriteColumnFamily** : The name of the column family of the Bigtable table to write data into.

### Optional parameters

* **inputTableSpec** : The BigQuery table to read from. Format: `projectId:datasetId.tablename`. If you specify `inputTableSpec`, the template reads the data directly from BigQuery storage by using the BigQuery Storage Read API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/storage). For information about limitations in the Storage Read API, see https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/storage#limitations. You must specify either `inputTableSpec` or `query`. If you set both parameters, the template uses the `query` parameter. (Example: bigquery-project:dataset.input_table).
* **outputDeadletterTable** : The BigQuery table for messages that failed to reach the output table, in the format <PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<DEADLETTER_TABLE>. If a table doesn't exist, is is created during pipeline execution. If not specified, `<outputTableSpec>_error_records` is used. (Example: your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name).
* **query** : The SQL query to use to read data from BigQuery. If the BigQuery dataset is in a different project than the Dataflow job, specify the full dataset name in the SQL query, for example: <PROJECT_ID>.<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>. By default, the `query` parameter uses GoogleSQL (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/introduction-sql), unless `useLegacySql` is `true`. You must specify either `inputTableSpec` or `query`. If you set both parameters, the template uses the `query` parameter. (Example: select * from sampledb.sample_table).
* **useLegacySql** : Set to true to use legacy SQL. This parameter only applies when using the `query` parameter. Defaults to: false.
* **queryLocation** : Needed when reading from an authorized view without underlying table's permission. (Example: US).
* **bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs** : The timeout for each Bigtable RPC attempt in milliseconds.
* **bigtableRpcTimeoutMs** : The total timeout for a Bigtable RPC operation in milliseconds.
* **bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes** : The additional retry codes. (Example: RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED,DEADLINE_EXCEEDED).
* **bigtableWriteAppProfile** : The ID of the Bigtable application profile to use for the export. If you do not specify an app profile, Bigtable uses the default app profile (https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/app-profiles#default-app-profile) of the instance.
* **bigtableWriteProjectId** : The ID of the Google Cloud project that contains the Bigtable instanceto write data to.
* **bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs** : The latency target of Bigtable in milliseconds for latency-based throttling.
* **bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount** : The maximum number of row keys in a Bigtable batch write operation.
* **bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes** : The maximum bytes to include per Bigtable batch write operation.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/BigQueryToBigtable.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="BigQuery_to_Bigtable" \
-f v2/bigquery-to-bigtable
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/BigQuery_to_Bigtable
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/BigQuery_to_Bigtable"

### Required
export READ_ID_COLUMN=<readIdColumn>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID=<bigtableWriteInstanceId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID=<bigtableWriteTableId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY=<bigtableWriteColumnFamily>

### Optional
export INPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<inputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export QUERY=<query>
export USE_LEGACY_SQL=false
export QUERY_LOCATION=<queryLocation>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES=<bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE=default
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID=<bigtableWriteProjectId>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS=<bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes>

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "bigquery-to-bigtable-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "readIdColumn=$READ_ID_COLUMN" \
  --parameters "inputTableSpec=$INPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "query=$QUERY" \
  --parameters "useLegacySql=$USE_LEGACY_SQL" \
  --parameters "queryLocation=$QUERY_LOCATION" \
  --parameters "bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS" \
  --parameters "bigtableRpcTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS" \
  --parameters "bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes=$BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteInstanceId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteTableId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteColumnFamily=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteAppProfile=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteProjectId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS" \
  --parameters "bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT" \
  --parameters "bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export READ_ID_COLUMN=<readIdColumn>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID=<bigtableWriteInstanceId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID=<bigtableWriteTableId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY=<bigtableWriteColumnFamily>

### Optional
export INPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<inputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export QUERY=<query>
export USE_LEGACY_SQL=false
export QUERY_LOCATION=<queryLocation>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES=<bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE=default
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID=<bigtableWriteProjectId>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS=<bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="bigquery-to-bigtable-job" \
-DtemplateName="BigQuery_to_Bigtable" \
-Dparameters="readIdColumn=$READ_ID_COLUMN,inputTableSpec=$INPUT_TABLE_SPEC,outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,query=$QUERY,useLegacySql=$USE_LEGACY_SQL,queryLocation=$QUERY_LOCATION,bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS,bigtableRpcTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS,bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes=$BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES,bigtableWriteInstanceId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID,bigtableWriteTableId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID,bigtableWriteColumnFamily=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY,bigtableWriteAppProfile=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE,bigtableWriteProjectId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID,bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS,bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT,bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES" \
-f v2/bigquery-to-bigtable
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/terraform/BigQuery_to_Bigtable
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "bigquery_to_bigtable" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/BigQuery_to_Bigtable"
  name              = "bigquery-to-bigtable"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    readIdColumn = "<readIdColumn>"
    bigtableWriteInstanceId = "<bigtableWriteInstanceId>"
    bigtableWriteTableId = "<bigtableWriteTableId>"
    bigtableWriteColumnFamily = "<bigtableWriteColumnFamily>"
    # inputTableSpec = "bigquery-project:dataset.input_table"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name"
    # query = "select * from sampledb.sample_table"
    # useLegacySql = "false"
    # queryLocation = "US"
    # bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs = "<bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs>"
    # bigtableRpcTimeoutMs = "<bigtableRpcTimeoutMs>"
    # bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes = "RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED,DEADLINE_EXCEEDED"
    # bigtableWriteAppProfile = "default"
    # bigtableWriteProjectId = "<bigtableWriteProjectId>"
    # bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs = "<bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs>"
    # bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount = "<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount>"
    # bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes = "<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes>"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/README_BigQuery_to_Bigtable.md, after:


BigQuery to Bigtable template
---
A pipeline to export a BigQuery table into Bigtable.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/bigquery-to-bigtable)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=BigQuery_to_Bigtable).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **readIdColumn** : The name of the BigQuery column storing the unique identifier of the row.
* **bigtableWriteInstanceId** : The ID of the Bigtable instance that contains the table.
* **bigtableWriteTableId** : The ID of the Bigtable table to write to.
* **bigtableWriteColumnFamily** : The name of the column family of the Bigtable table to write data into.

### Optional parameters

* **inputTableSpec** : The BigQuery table to read from. Format: `projectId:datasetId.tablename`. If you specify `inputTableSpec`, the template reads the data directly from BigQuery storage by using the BigQuery Storage Read API (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/storage). For information about limitations in the Storage Read API, see https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/storage#limitations. You must specify either `inputTableSpec` or `query`. If you set both parameters, the template uses the `query` parameter. (Example: bigquery-project:dataset.input_table).
* **outputDeadletterTable** : The BigQuery table for messages that failed to reach the output table, in the format <PROJECT_ID>:<DATASET_NAME>.<DEADLETTER_TABLE>. If a table doesn't exist, is is created during pipeline execution. If not specified, `<outputTableSpec>_error_records` is used. (Example: your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name).
* **query** : The SQL query to use to read data from BigQuery. If the BigQuery dataset is in a different project than the Dataflow job, specify the full dataset name in the SQL query, for example: <PROJECT_ID>.<DATASET_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME>. By default, the `query` parameter uses GoogleSQL (https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/introduction-sql), unless `useLegacySql` is `true`. You must specify either `inputTableSpec` or `query`. If you set both parameters, the template uses the `query` parameter. (Example: select * from sampledb.sample_table).
* **useLegacySql** : Set to true to use legacy SQL. This parameter only applies when using the `query` parameter. Defaults to: false.
* **queryLocation** : Needed when reading from an authorized view without underlying table's permission. (Example: US).
* **bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs** : The timeout for each Bigtable RPC attempt in milliseconds.
* **bigtableRpcTimeoutMs** : The total timeout for a Bigtable RPC operation in milliseconds.
* **bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes** : The additional retry codes. (Example: RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED,DEADLINE_EXCEEDED).
* **bigtableWriteAppProfile** : The ID of the Bigtable application profile to use for the export. If you do not specify an app profile, Bigtable uses the default app profile (https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/app-profiles#default-app-profile) of the instance.
* **bigtableWriteProjectId** : The ID of the Google Cloud project that contains the Bigtable instanceto write data to.
* **bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs** : The latency target of Bigtable in milliseconds for latency-based throttling.
* **bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount** : The maximum number of row keys in a Bigtable batch write operation.
* **bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes** : The maximum bytes to include per Bigtable batch write operation.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/BigQueryToBigtable.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="BigQuery_to_Bigtable" \
-f v2/bigquery-to-bigtable
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/BigQuery_to_Bigtable
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/BigQuery_to_Bigtable"

### Required
export READ_ID_COLUMN=<readIdColumn>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID=<bigtableWriteInstanceId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID=<bigtableWriteTableId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY=<bigtableWriteColumnFamily>

### Optional
export INPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<inputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export QUERY=<query>
export USE_LEGACY_SQL=false
export QUERY_LOCATION=<queryLocation>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES=<bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE=default
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID=<bigtableWriteProjectId>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS=<bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes>

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "bigquery-to-bigtable-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "readIdColumn=$READ_ID_COLUMN" \
  --parameters "inputTableSpec=$INPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "query=$QUERY" \
  --parameters "useLegacySql=$USE_LEGACY_SQL" \
  --parameters "queryLocation=$QUERY_LOCATION" \
  --parameters "bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS" \
  --parameters "bigtableRpcTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS" \
  --parameters "bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes=$BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteInstanceId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteTableId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteColumnFamily=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteAppProfile=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE" \
  --parameters "bigtableWriteProjectId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS" \
  --parameters "bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT" \
  --parameters "bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export READ_ID_COLUMN=<readIdColumn>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID=<bigtableWriteInstanceId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID=<bigtableWriteTableId>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY=<bigtableWriteColumnFamily>

### Optional
export INPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<inputTableSpec>
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export QUERY=<query>
export USE_LEGACY_SQL=false
export QUERY_LOCATION=<queryLocation>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS=<bigtableRpcTimeoutMs>
export BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES=<bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE=default
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID=<bigtableWriteProjectId>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS=<bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount>
export BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES=<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="bigquery-to-bigtable-job" \
-DtemplateName="BigQuery_to_Bigtable" \
-Dparameters="readIdColumn=$READ_ID_COLUMN,inputTableSpec=$INPUT_TABLE_SPEC,outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,query=$QUERY,useLegacySql=$USE_LEGACY_SQL,queryLocation=$QUERY_LOCATION,bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_ATTEMPT_TIMEOUT_MS,bigtableRpcTimeoutMs=$BIGTABLE_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS,bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes=$BIGTABLE_ADDITIONAL_RETRY_CODES,bigtableWriteInstanceId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID,bigtableWriteTableId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID,bigtableWriteColumnFamily=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY,bigtableWriteAppProfile=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_APP_PROFILE,bigtableWriteProjectId=$BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID,bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_LATENCY_TARGET_MS,bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_ROW_KEY_COUNT,bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes=$BIGTABLE_BULK_WRITE_MAX_REQUEST_SIZE_BYTES" \
-f v2/bigquery-to-bigtable
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/terraform/BigQuery_to_Bigtable
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "bigquery_to_bigtable" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/BigQuery_to_Bigtable"
  name              = "bigquery-to-bigtable"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    readIdColumn = "<readIdColumn>"
    bigtableWriteInstanceId = "<bigtableWriteInstanceId>"
    bigtableWriteTableId = "<bigtableWriteTableId>"
    bigtableWriteColumnFamily = "<bigtableWriteColumnFamily>"
    # inputTableSpec = "bigquery-project:dataset.input_table"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name"
    # query = "select * from sampledb.sample_table"
    # useLegacySql = "false"
    # queryLocation = "US"
    # bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs = "<bigtableRpcAttemptTimeoutMs>"
    # bigtableRpcTimeoutMs = "<bigtableRpcTimeoutMs>"
    # bigtableAdditionalRetryCodes = "RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED,DEADLINE_EXCEEDED"
    # bigtableWriteAppProfile = "default"
    # bigtableWriteProjectId = "<bigtableWriteProjectId>"
    # bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs = "<bigtableBulkWriteLatencyTargetMs>"
    # bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount = "<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRowKeyCount>"
    # bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes = "<bigtableBulkWriteMaxRequestSizeBytes>"
  }
}
```
