v2/pubsub-to-redis/README_Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis.md, before:


Pub/Sub to Redis template
---
The Pub/Sub to Redis template is a streaming pipeline that reads messages from a
Pub/Sub subscription and writes the message payload to Redis. The most common use
case of this template is to export logs to Redis Enterprise for advanced
search-based log analysis in real time.

Before writing to Redis, you can apply a JavaScript user-defined function to the
message payload. Any messages that experience processing failures are forwarded
to a Pub/Sub unprocessed topic for further troubleshooting and reprocessing.

For added security, enable an SSL connection when setting up your database
endpoint connection.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/pubsub-to-redis)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputSubscription** : The Pub/Sub subscription to read the input from, in the format projects/<PROJECT_ID>/subscriptions/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>. (Example: projects/your-project-id/subscriptions/your-subscription-name).
* **redisHost** : The Redis database host. (Example: your.cloud.db.redislabs.com). Defaults to: 127.0.0.1.
* **redisPort** : The Redis database port. (Example: 12345). Defaults to: 6379.
* **redisPassword** : The Redis database password. Defaults to empty.

### Optional parameters

* **sslEnabled** : The Redis database SSL parameter. Defaults to: false.
* **redisSinkType** : The Redis sink. Supported values are `STRING_SINK, HASH_SINK, STREAMS_SINK, and LOGGING_SINK`. (Example: STRING_SINK). Defaults to: STRING_SINK.
* **connectionTimeout** : The Redis connection timeout in milliseconds.  (Example: 2000). Defaults to: 2000.
* **ttl** : The key expiration time in seconds. The `ttl` default for `HASH_SINK` is -1, which means it never expires.
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the .js file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. (Example: gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Pub/Sub to Redis Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/pubsub-to-redis/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/PubSubToRedis.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis" \
-f v2/pubsub-to-redis
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis"

### Required
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export REDIS_HOST=127.0.0.1
export REDIS_PORT=6379
export REDIS_PASSWORD=""

### Optional
export SSL_ENABLED=false
export REDIS_SINK_TYPE=STRING_SINK
export CONNECTION_TIMEOUT=2000
export TTL=-1
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "cloud-pubsub-to-redis-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION" \
  --parameters "redisHost=$REDIS_HOST" \
  --parameters "redisPort=$REDIS_PORT" \
  --parameters "redisPassword=$REDIS_PASSWORD" \
  --parameters "sslEnabled=$SSL_ENABLED" \
  --parameters "redisSinkType=$REDIS_SINK_TYPE" \
  --parameters "connectionTimeout=$CONNECTION_TIMEOUT" \
  --parameters "ttl=$TTL" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export REDIS_HOST=127.0.0.1
export REDIS_PORT=6379
export REDIS_PASSWORD=""

### Optional
export SSL_ENABLED=false
export REDIS_SINK_TYPE=STRING_SINK
export CONNECTION_TIMEOUT=2000
export TTL=-1
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-pubsub-to-redis-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis" \
-Dparameters="inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION,redisHost=$REDIS_HOST,redisPort=$REDIS_PORT,redisPassword=$REDIS_PASSWORD,sslEnabled=$SSL_ENABLED,redisSinkType=$REDIS_SINK_TYPE,connectionTimeout=$CONNECTION_TIMEOUT,ttl=$TTL,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
-f v2/pubsub-to-redis
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/pubsub-to-redis/terraform/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "cloud_pubsub_to_redis" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis"
  name              = "cloud-pubsub-to-redis"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    inputSubscription = "projects/your-project-id/subscriptions/your-subscription-name"
    redisHost = "your.cloud.db.redislabs.com"
    redisPort = "12345"
    redisPassword = ""
    # sslEnabled = "false"
    # redisSinkType = "STRING_SINK"
    # connectionTimeout = "2000"
    # ttl = "-1"
    # javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js"
    # javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update template docs
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v2/pubsub-to-redis/README_Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis.md, after:


Pub/Sub to Redis template
---
The Pub/Sub to Redis template is a streaming pipeline that reads messages from a
Pub/Sub subscription and writes the message payload to Redis. The most common use
case of this template is to export logs to Redis Enterprise for advanced
search-based log analysis in real time.

Before writing to Redis, you can apply a JavaScript user-defined function to the
message payload. Any messages that experience processing failures are forwarded
to a Pub/Sub unprocessed topic for further troubleshooting and reprocessing.

For added security, enable an SSL connection when setting up your database
endpoint connection.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/pubsub-to-redis)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required parameters

* **inputSubscription** : The Pub/Sub subscription to read the input from, in the format projects/<PROJECT_ID>/subscriptions/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>. (Example: projects/your-project-id/subscriptions/your-subscription-name).
* **redisHost** : The Redis database host. (Example: your.cloud.db.redislabs.com). Defaults to: 127.0.0.1.
* **redisPort** : The Redis database port. (Example: 12345). Defaults to: 6379.
* **redisPassword** : The Redis database password. Defaults to empty.

### Optional parameters

* **sslEnabled** : The Redis database SSL parameter. Defaults to: false.
* **redisSinkType** : The Redis sink. Supported values are `STRING_SINK, HASH_SINK, STREAMS_SINK, and LOGGING_SINK`. (Example: STRING_SINK). Defaults to: STRING_SINK.
* **connectionTimeout** : The Redis connection timeout in milliseconds.  (Example: 2000). Defaults to: 2000.
* **ttl** : The key expiration time in seconds. The `ttl` default for `HASH_SINK` is -1, which means it never expires.
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** : The Cloud Storage URI of the .js file that defines the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. (Example: gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** : The name of the JavaScript user-defined function (UDF) to use. For example, if your JavaScript function code is `myTransform(inJson) { /*...do stuff...*/ }`, then the function name is `myTransform`. For sample JavaScript UDFs, see UDF Examples (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#udf-examples).
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** : Specifies how frequently to reload the UDF, in minutes. If the value is greater than 0, Dataflow periodically checks the UDF file in Cloud Storage, and reloads the UDF if the file is modified. This parameter allows you to update the UDF while the pipeline is running, without needing to restart the job. If the value is 0, UDF reloading is disabled. The default value is 0.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Pub/Sub to Redis Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/pubsub-to-redis/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/PubSubToRedis.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin).

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis" \
-f v2/pubsub-to-redis
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis"

### Required
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export REDIS_HOST=127.0.0.1
export REDIS_PORT=6379
export REDIS_PASSWORD=""

### Optional
export SSL_ENABLED=false
export REDIS_SINK_TYPE=STRING_SINK
export CONNECTION_TIMEOUT=2000
export TTL=-1
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "cloud-pubsub-to-redis-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION" \
  --parameters "redisHost=$REDIS_HOST" \
  --parameters "redisPort=$REDIS_PORT" \
  --parameters "redisPassword=$REDIS_PASSWORD" \
  --parameters "sslEnabled=$SSL_ENABLED" \
  --parameters "redisSinkType=$REDIS_SINK_TYPE" \
  --parameters "connectionTimeout=$CONNECTION_TIMEOUT" \
  --parameters "ttl=$TTL" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION=<inputSubscription>
export REDIS_HOST=127.0.0.1
export REDIS_PORT=6379
export REDIS_PASSWORD=""

### Optional
export SSL_ENABLED=false
export REDIS_SINK_TYPE=STRING_SINK
export CONNECTION_TIMEOUT=2000
export TTL=-1
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-pubsub-to-redis-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis" \
-Dparameters="inputSubscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION,redisHost=$REDIS_HOST,redisPort=$REDIS_PORT,redisPassword=$REDIS_PASSWORD,sslEnabled=$SSL_ENABLED,redisSinkType=$REDIS_SINK_TYPE,connectionTimeout=$CONNECTION_TIMEOUT,ttl=$TTL,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
-f v2/pubsub-to-redis
```

#### Troubleshooting
If there are compilation errors related to template metadata or template plugin framework,
make sure the plugin dependencies are up-to-date by running:
```
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin,metadata -am
```
See [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates/blob/main/contributor-docs/code-contributions.md#templates-plugin)
for more information.



## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Terraform modules have been generated for most templates in this repository. This includes the relevant parameters
specific to the template. If available, they may be used instead of
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly.

To use the autogenerated module, execute the standard
[terraform workflow](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/core-workflow):

```shell
cd v2/pubsub-to-redis/terraform/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis
terraform init
terraform apply
```

To use
[dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job)
directly:

```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "cloud_pubsub_to_redis" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Cloud_PubSub_to_Redis"
  name              = "cloud-pubsub-to-redis"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    inputSubscription = "projects/your-project-id/subscriptions/your-subscription-name"
    redisHost = "your.cloud.db.redislabs.com"
    redisPort = "12345"
    redisPassword = ""
    # sslEnabled = "false"
    # redisSinkType = "STRING_SINK"
    # connectionTimeout = "2000"
    # ttl = "-1"
    # javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://my-bucket/my-udfs/my_file.js"
    # javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
  }
}
```
